=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_buf_print, ASN1_bn_print - print key components

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 int ASN1_buf_print(BIO *bp, const unsigned char *buf, size_t buflen, int indent);
 int ASN1_bn_print(BIO *bp, const char *number, const BIGNUM *num,
                   unsigned char *ign, int indent);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ASN1_buf_print() prints the contents of the buffer I<buf> of length I<buflen>
to the BIO I<bp>. The output is formatted as colon-separated hexadecimal bytes,
with each line indented by I<indent> spaces. Lines wrap at 16 bytes.

ASN1_bn_print() prints the B<BIGNUM> I<num> to the BIO I<bp>, preceded by
the label I<number>. The output is indented by I<indent> spaces. For small
values that fit in a single word, the output shows both decimal and hexadecimal
representations. For larger values, the output is formatted as colon-separated
hexadecimal bytes similar to ASN1_buf_print().

The I<ign> parameter is ignored and should be passed as NULL.

These functions are primarily used internally for printing key components in
human-readable format. Their output format should not be considered stable,
and may change at any time. Parsing the output of these functions is not advised.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Both functions return 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 HISTORY

ASN1_bn_print() was added in OpenSSL 1.0.0.

ASN1_buf_print() was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
