=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_OBJECT_new, ASN1_OBJECT_free - object allocation functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 void ASN1_OBJECT_free(ASN1_OBJECT *a);

The following functions have been deprecated since OpenSSL 4.0, and can be
hidden entirely by defining B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value,
see L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 ASN1_OBJECT *ASN1_OBJECT_new(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ASN1_OBJECT> allocation routines, allocate and free an
B<ASN1_OBJECT> structure, which represents an ASN1 OBJECT IDENTIFIER.

ASN1_OBJECT_new() allocates and initializes an B<ASN1_OBJECT> structure. This
function is deprecated and exists for legacy backward compatibility reasons
and always returns NULL.

ASN1_OBJECT_free() frees up the B<ASN1_OBJECT> structure I<a>.
If I<a> is NULL, nothing is done.

=head1 NOTES

Although ASN1_OBJECT_new() allocates a new B<ASN1_OBJECT> structure it
is almost never used in applications. The ASN1 object utility functions
such as OBJ_nid2obj() are used instead.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASN1_OBJECT_new() always return NULL.

ASN1_OBJECT_free() returns no value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_ASN1_OBJECT(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ASN1_OBJECT_new() was deprecated in OpenSSL 4.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
