=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_bn_print, ASN1_buf_print - BIGNUM and buffer printing routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 int ASN1_bn_print(BIO *bp, const char *number, const BIGNUM *num,
                   unsigned char *ign, int indent);
 int ASN1_buf_print(BIO *bp, const unsigned char *buf, size_t buflen,
                    int indent);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ASN1_bn_print() prints the BIGNUM I<num> to the BIO I<bp>. If I<num> is NULL,
nothing is printed. The I<number> parameter is a string that is printed as a
label before the value. The output is indented by I<indent> spaces. The I<ign>
parameter is ignored and may be NULL.

For small numbers (up to BN_BYTES bytes), the value is printed in both decimal
and hexadecimal on a single line. For example:

 exponent: 65537 (0x10001)

For larger numbers, the label is printed on one line, followed by the
hexadecimal representation of the number printed using ASN1_buf_print().

ASN1_buf_print() prints the contents of I<buf> of length I<buflen> to the BIO
I<bp>. The output is formatted as colon-separated hexadecimal octets, wrapped
at 16 octets per line, with each line indented by I<indent> spaces. For example:

     00:c4:40:87:1c:d5:15:c3:e4:fb:6e:55:cd:97:e5:
     b7:e7:0c:a6:6e:fe:b5:f2:4c:b1:d5:d1:25:6b:8d:
     f6:9f

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASN1_bn_print() and ASN1_buf_print() return 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BN_print(3)>,
L<ASN1_STRING_print_ex(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ASN1_bn_print() was added in OpenSSL 0.9.8.

ASN1_buf_print() was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
