=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_bit,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_bit,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_check,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_name_print,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_num_asc,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_asc,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_length - ASN1_BIT_STRING accessors

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/asn1.h>

  typedef struct BIT_STRING_BITNAME_st {
      int bitnum;
      const char *lname;
      const char *sname;
  } BIT_STRING_BITNAME;

  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_bit(ASN1_BIT_STRING *a, int n, int value);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_bit(const ASN1_BIT_STRING *a, int n);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_check(const ASN1_BIT_STRING *a,
    const unsigned char *flags, int flags_len);

  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_name_print(BIO *out, ASN1_BIT_STRING *bs,
    BIT_STRING_BITNAME *tbl, int indent);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_num_asc(const char *name, BIT_STRING_BITNAME *tbl);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_asc(ASN1_BIT_STRING *bs, const char *name,
    int value, BIT_STRING_BITNAME *tbl);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_length(const ASN1_BIT_STRING *bitstr,
    size_t *length, int *unused_bits);
  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1(ASN1_BIT_STRING *bitstr, const uint8_t *data,
    size_t length, int unused_bits);

The following function have been deprecated since OpenSSL 4.1, and can be
hidden entirely by defining B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value,
see L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

  int ASN1_BIT_STRING_set(ASN1_BIT_STRING *a, unsigned char *d, int length);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The ASN.1 BIT STRING type holds a bit string of arbitrary bit length.
In the distinguished encoding rules DER, its bits are encoded in
groups of eight, leaving between zero and seven bits of the
last octet unused. If there are unused bits, they must all be set to
zero.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_bit() sets the I<n>th bit (counted from 0 as the
least significant bit) of a bit string I<a> to I<value> which is
interpreted as a boolean.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_bit() returns the bit value of the I<n>th bit in the
bit string I<a>.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_check() checks if the I<a> bit string contains only bits
specified by the I<flags> vector. I<flags_len> is the length of I<flags>
in bytes.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_name_print() prints the corresponding bit name specified
in I<tbl> to I<out> based on the bit string I<bs>. I<indent> might be
specified for a number of spaces to indent the line.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_num_asc() searches for the provided I<name> in I<lname>
and I<sname> fields of I<tbl>'s elements and returns the corresponding
I<bitnum> field value in case there is a match found.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_asc() sets the corresponding bit to I<name> in I<bs>
based on the conversion table I<tbl>.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_length() returns the number of octets in I<bitstr>
containing bit values in I<length> and the number of unused bits in
the last octet in I<unused_bits>. The value returned in
I<unused_bits> is guaranteed to be between 0 and 7, inclusive.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set() sets the octets of I<a> to the bits in the
byte string I<d> of I<length> octets.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1() sets the type of I<bitstr> to
I<V_ASN1_BIT_STRING> and its octets to the bits in the byte string
I<data> of length I<length> octets, making sure that the last
I<unused_bits> bits in the last byte are zero.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_bit() returns 1 on success or 0 on incorrect input
values.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_bit() returns the value of the requested bit or 0
when data not available for the requested arguments.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_check() returns 0 if there is at least one bit set in
I<a> which is not specified in I<flags>, 1 otherwise.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_name_print() returns 1 on success, or 0 when the print
functions fail.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_num_asc() returns the bit number of the requested
I<name> or -1 when the name was not found.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_asc() returns 1 on success or 0 on failure.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_length() returns 1 on success or 0 if the encoding
of I<bitstr> is internally inconsistent, or if one of I<bitstr>,
I<length>, or I<unused_bits> is NULL.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set() returns 1 on success or 0 if memory allocation fails,
I<length> is not specified (value less than 0) and I<d> is NULL or
I<length> is larger than INT_MAX-1.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1() returns 1 on success or 0 if memory allocation
fails or if I<bitstr> is NULL, I<length> is too large, I<length> is
zero and I<unused_bits> is nonzero, I<unused_bits> is less than 0 or
greater than 7, or any unused bit in the last octet of I<data> is
nonzero.

=head1 HISTORY

Functions ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_length() and ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1() were
added in OpenSSL version 4.0.

ASN1_BIT_STRING_set() was deprecated in OpenSSL 4.1 in favour of
ASN1_BIT_STRING_set1().

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
