=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_STRING_new, ASN1_STRING_type_new, ASN1_STRING_free,
ASN1_OCTET_STRING_new, ASN1_OCTET_STRING_free, ASN1_OCTET_STRING_dup,
ASN1_BIT_STRING_new, ASN1_BIT_STRING_free,
ASN1_ENUMERATED_new, ASN1_ENUMERATED_free,
ASN1_UTF8STRING_new, ASN1_UTF8STRING_free,
ASN1_IA5STRING_new, ASN1_IA5STRING_free,
ASN1_GENERALSTRING_new, ASN1_GENERALSTRING_free,
ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING_new, ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING_free,
ASN1_T61STRING_new, ASN1_T61STRING_free,
ASN1_VISIBLESTRING_new, ASN1_VISIBLESTRING_free,
ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING_new, ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING_free,
ASN1_BMPSTRING_new, ASN1_BMPSTRING_free
- ASN1_STRING allocation functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 ASN1_STRING *ASN1_STRING_new(void);
 ASN1_STRING *ASN1_STRING_type_new(int type);
 void ASN1_STRING_free(ASN1_STRING *a);

 ASN1_OCTET_STRING *ASN1_OCTET_STRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_OCTET_STRING_free(ASN1_OCTET_STRING *a);
 ASN1_OCTET_STRING *ASN1_OCTET_STRING_dup(const ASN1_OCTET_STRING *a);
 ASN1_BIT_STRING *ASN1_BIT_STRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_BIT_STRING_free(ASN1_BIT_STRING *a);
 ASN1_ENUMERATED *ASN1_ENUMERATED_new(void);
 void ASN1_ENUMERATED_free(ASN1_ENUMERATED *a);
 ASN1_UTF8STRING *ASN1_UTF8STRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_UTF8STRING_free(ASN1_UTF8STRING *a);
 ASN1_IA5STRING *ASN1_IA5STRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_IA5STRING_free(ASN1_IA5STRING *a);
 ASN1_GENERALSTRING *ASN1_GENERALSTRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_GENERALSTRING_free(ASN1_GENERALSTRING *a);
 ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING *ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING_free(ASN1_PRINTABLESTRING *a);
 ASN1_T61STRING *ASN1_T61STRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_T61STRING_free(ASN1_T61STRING *a);
 ASN1_VISIBLESTRING *ASN1_VISIBLESTRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_VISIBLESTRING_free(ASN1_VISIBLESTRING *a);
 ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING *ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING_free(ASN1_UNIVERSALSTRING *a);
 ASN1_BMPSTRING *ASN1_BMPSTRING_new(void);
 void ASN1_BMPSTRING_free(ASN1_BMPSTRING *a);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ASN1_STRING_new() returns an allocated B<ASN1_STRING> structure. Its type
is undefined.

ASN1_STRING_type_new() returns an allocated B<ASN1_STRING> structure of
type I<type>.

ASN1_STRING_free() frees up I<a>.
If I<a> is NULL nothing is done.

ASN1_OCTET_STRING_dup() is equivalent to ASN1_STRING_dup() and is provided
for type safety when working with B<ASN1_OCTET_STRING> values.

=head1 NOTES

Almost all ASN.1 types in OpenSSL are represented as an B<ASN1_STRING>
structure. The type-specific variants such as B<ASN1_OCTET_STRING>,
B<ASN1_BIT_STRING>, B<ASN1_INTEGER>, and others are typedef aliases for
B<ASN1_STRING>.

The type-specific I<new> functions call ASN1_STRING_type_new() with the
appropriate type constant. For example, ASN1_OCTET_STRING_new() is equivalent
to calling ASN1_STRING_type_new(V_ASN1_OCTET_STRING).

The type-specific I<free> functions are all equivalent to ASN1_STRING_free().

Type-specific utility functions also exist for common operations:

=over 4

=item *

B<ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set>, B<ASN1_OCTET_STRING_cmp>
(see L<ASN1_STRING_length(3)>)

=item *

B<ASN1_BIT_STRING_set_bit>, B<ASN1_BIT_STRING_get_bit>, etc.
(see L<ASN1_STRING_length(3)>)

=item *

B<ASN1_INTEGER_set>, B<ASN1_INTEGER_get>, B<ASN1_INTEGER_cmp>, etc.
(see L<ASN1_INTEGER_get_int64(3)>)

=item *

B<ASN1_ENUMERATED_set>, B<ASN1_ENUMERATED_get>, etc.
(see L<ASN1_INTEGER_get_int64(3)>)

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASN1_STRING_new(), ASN1_STRING_type_new(), and ASN1_OCTET_STRING_dup()
return a valid B<ASN1_STRING> structure or NULL if an error occurred.

ASN1_STRING_free() does not return a value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2023 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
