=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_STRING_set_data, ASN1_STRING_set_string, ASN1_STRING_length_ex,
ASN1_STRING_dup, ASN1_STRING_cmp, ASN1_STRING_set, ASN1_STRING_length,
ASN1_STRING_type, ASN1_STRING_get0_data,
ASN1_STRING_to_UTF8 - ASN1_STRING utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 const unsigned char *ASN1_STRING_get0_data(const ASN1_STRING *x);

 ASN1_STRING *ASN1_STRING_dup(const ASN1_STRING *a);

 int ASN1_STRING_cmp(ASN1_STRING *a, ASN1_STRING *b);

 int ASN1_STRING_type(const ASN1_STRING *x);

 int ASN1_STRING_to_UTF8(unsigned char **out, const ASN1_STRING *in);

 int ASN1_STRING_set_data(ASN1_STRING *str, const uint8_t *data, size_t len);

 int ASN1_STRING_set_string(ASN1_STRING *str, const char *data);

 size_t ASN1_STRING_length_ex(const ASN1_STRING *x);

The following functions have been deprecated since OpenSSL 4.1, and can be
hidden entirely by defining B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value,
see L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 int ASN1_STRING_set(ASN1_STRING *str, const void *data, int len);

 int ASN1_STRING_length(ASN1_STRING *x);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions allow an B<ASN1_STRING> structure to be manipulated.

ASN1_STRING_length() returns the length of the content of I<x>. I<x> B<MUST NOT> be NULL.

ASN1_STRING_get0_data() returns an internal pointer to the data of I<x>.
Since this is an internal pointer it should B<not> be freed or
modified in any way. I<x> B<MUST NOT> be NULL.

ASN1_STRING_dup() returns a copy of the structure I<a>.

ASN1_STRING_cmp() compares I<a> and I<b> returning 0 if the two
are identical. The string types and content are compared.

ASN1_STRING_set() allocates memory for string I<str> to hold I<len>
bytes of data. Any previously allocated memory owned by I<str> will be
freed or re-used.  If I<data> is not NULL, I<len> bytes are copied
from the memory pointed to by I<data> to I<str>. If I<len> is -1 then
the length is determined by strlen(data).

ASN1_STRING_set_data() allocates memory for string I<str> to hold
I<len> bytes of data. Any previously allocated memory owned by I<str>
will be freed or re-used.  If I<data> is not NULL, I<len> bytes are
copied from the memory pointed to by I<data> to I<str>. It is an error
to use this function on a string of type B<ASN1_BIT_STRING>.

ASN1_STRING_set_string() allocates memory for the string I<str> and makes
a copy of the characters from I<cstring>. Any previously
allocated memory owned by I<str> will be freed or re-used.  I<cstring>
must point to a valid NUL-terminated C string, and must not be
NULL. The terminating NUL byte is not included in the data copied into
I<str>.  It is an error to use this function on a string of type
B<ASN1_BIT_STRING>.

ASN1_STRING_type() returns the type of I<x>, using standard constants
such as B<V_ASN1_OCTET_STRING>.

ASN1_STRING_to_UTF8() converts the string I<in> to UTF8 format, the
converted data is allocated in a buffer in I<*out>. The length of
I<out> is returned or a negative error code. The buffer I<*out>
should be freed using OPENSSL_free().

=head1 NOTES

Almost all ASN1 types in OpenSSL are represented as an B<ASN1_STRING>
structure. Other types such as B<ASN1_OCTET_STRING> are simply typedef'ed
to B<ASN1_STRING> and the functions call the B<ASN1_STRING> equivalents.
B<ASN1_STRING> is also used for some B<CHOICE> types which consist
entirely of primitive string types such as B<DirectoryString> and
B<Time>.

These functions should B<not> be used to examine or modify B<ASN1_INTEGER>
or B<ASN1_ENUMERATED> types: the relevant B<INTEGER> or B<ENUMERATED>
utility functions should be used instead.

In general it cannot be assumed that the data returned by
ASN1_STRING_get0_data() is null terminated or does not contain
embedded nulls. The actual format of the data will depend on the
actual string type itself: for example for an IA5String the data will
be ASCII, for a BMPString two bytes per character in big endian
format, and for a UTF8String it will be in UTF8 format.

Similar care should be taken to ensure the data is in the correct
format when calling ASN1_STRING_set(), ASN1_STRING_set_data(), or
ASN1_STRING_set_string().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASN1_STRING_length() returns the length of the content of I<x>.

ASN1_STRING_get0_data() returns an internal pointer to
the data of I<x>.

ASN1_STRING_dup() returns a valid B<ASN1_STRING> structure or NULL if an
error occurred.

ASN1_STRING_cmp() returns an integer greater than, equal to, or less than 0,
according to whether I<a> is greater than, equal to, or less than I<b>.

ASN1_STRING_set(), ASN1_STRING_set_data(), and
ASN1_STRING_set_string() return 1 on success or 0 on error or failure.

ASN1_STRING_type() returns the type of I<x>.

ASN1_STRING_to_UTF8() returns the number of bytes in output string I<out> or a
negative value if an error occurred.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ASN1_STRING_set_data(), ASN1_STRING_set_string(), and ASN1_STRING_length_ex()
were added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
