=pod

=head1 NAME

BIO_set_dgram_origin, BIO_set_dgram_dest, BIO_get_dgram_origin, BIO_get_dgram_dest
- BIO datagram control operations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/bio.h>

 int BIO_set_dgram_origin(BIO *b, BIO_ADDR *local);
 int BIO_get_dgram_origin(BIO *b, BIO_ADDR *local);

 int BIO_set_dgram_dest(BIO *b, BIO_ADDR *peer);
 int BIO_get_dgram_dest(BIO *b, BIO_ADDR *peer);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

These BIO get and set functions deal with the underlying connections for datagram sockets as used by DTLS sessions.

Unconnected datagram sockets can receive packets from any address, and not being bound to a particular IP address, may receive packets to any valid local address.

When packets are received on these sockets, if the underlying operating system supports, they
are sent using functions that collect the originating and destination addresses on each packet.
After each call to BIO_dgram_read(), the origin and destination information is saved.
The BIO_get_dgram_origin() and BIO_get_dgram_dest() may be called to retrieve the saved information.

Unconnected datagram sockets can send packets from any valid local address, and can send traffic any desired destination.
Use the BIO_set_dgram_origin() and BIO_set_dgram_dest() calls to store the desired origin and destination for the next call to BIO_dgram_write().

Use of unconnected datagram sockets is critical for DTLS Hello Challenge.
Once a Hello Challenge has passed, creation of a connected datagram socket allows the kernel to do the demultiplexing of different streams.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All functions normally returns 0 for for failure, and otherwise return the size of the returned sockaddress structure.

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 3.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
