=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get0,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include "cmp.h"
  OSSL_CMP_PKISI *OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new(int status, unsigned long failInfo,
                                          const char *text);
  long OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  long OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  int OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si, int codeBit);
  ASN1_BIT_STRING *OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get0(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  OSSL_CMP_PKIFREETEXT *OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new() creates a new PKISI structure and fills it with the
given values. It returns a pointer to the structure on success, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get() returns the PKIStatus of the given PKISI,
or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get() returns PKIFailureInfo bits of the given
PKISI, or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check() checks PKIFailureInfo bits in the given
PKISI. Returns 1 if thea given bit is set, 0 if not, -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get() returns a pointer to the failInfo contained in
the given PKISI, or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0() returns the statusString field contained
in the given PKISI.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
