=pod

=head1 NAME

  OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatus_get,
  X509 *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_cert_get1,
  OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_certType_get,
  X509 *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_encCert_get1,
  OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIFailureInfo_get0,
  OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatusString_get0

=head1 SYNOPSIS
  static X509 *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_cert_get1(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep);
  static X509 *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_encCert_get1(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep,
                                                  EVP_PKEY *pkey);

  #include "cmp_int.h"
  long OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatus_get(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep);
  int OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_certType_get(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep, long rid);
  OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO
      *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIFailureInfo_get0(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep);
  STACK_OF(ASN1_UTF8STRING)
      *OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatusString_get0(OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE *crep);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatus_get() returns the PKIStatus of the given
B<crep>, or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIFailureInfo_get0() returns PKIFailureInfo of B<crep>.

OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatusString_get0() returns the status->statusString
field contained in the B<crep>.

OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_certType_get() returns the type of the certificate
contained in the certificate response B<crep>, or -1 on error.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 TODO

Evaluate whether functions should be static and whether they should be at all
listed in this documentation.  Only OSSL_CMP_CERTRESPONSE_PKIStatus_get() is
used in another source file cmp_ses.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
