=pod

=head1 NAME

COMP_CTX_new,
COMP_CTX_get_method,
COMP_CTX_get_type,
COMP_get_type,
COMP_get_name,
COMP_CTX_free,
COMP_compress_block,
COMP_expand_block,
COMP_zlib,
COMP_brotli,
COMP_brotli_oneshot,
BIO_f_zlib,
BIO_f_brotli
- Compression support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/comp.h>

 COMP_CTX *COMP_CTX_new(COMP_METHOD *meth);
 void COMP_CTX_free(COMP_CTX *ctx);
 const COMP_METHOD *COMP_CTX_get_method(const COMP_CTX *ctx);
 int COMP_CTX_get_type(const COMP_CTX* comp);
 int COMP_get_type(const COMP_METHOD *meth);
 const char *COMP_get_name(const COMP_METHOD *meth);

 int COMP_compress_block(COMP_CTX *ctx, unsigned char *out, int olen,
                         unsigned char *in, int ilen);
 int COMP_expand_block(COMP_CTX *ctx, unsigned char *out, int olen,
                      unsigned char *in, int ilen);

 COMP_METHOD *COMP_zlib(void);
 COMP_METHOD *COMP_brotli(void);
 COMP_METHOD *COMP_brotli_oneshot(void);

 const BIO_METHOD *BIO_f_zlib(void);
 const BIO_METHOD *BIO_f_brotli(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions provide compression support for OpenSSL. Compression is used within
the OpenSSL library to support TLS record and certificate compression.

COMP_CTX_new() is used to create a new B<COMP_CTX> structure used to compress data.
COMP_CTX_free() is used to free the returned B<COMP_CTX>.

COMP_CTX_get_method() returns the B<COMP_METHOD> of the given B<ctx>.

COMP_CTX_get_type() and COMP_get_type() return the NID for the B<COMP_CTX> and
B<COMP_METHOD>, respectively. COMP_get_name() returns the name of the algorithm
of the given B<COMP_METHOD>.

COMP_compress_block() compresses b<ilen> bytes from the buffer B<in> into the
buffer b<out> of size B<olen> using the algorithm specified by B<ctx>.

COMP_expand_block() expands b<ilen> bytes from the buffer B<in> into the
buffer b<out> of size B<olen> using the lgorithm specified by B<ctx>.

Methods (B<COMP_METHOD>) may be specified by one of these functions. These functions
will be available even if their corresponding compression algorithm is not configured
into the OpenSSL library. In such a case, a non-operative method will be returned.

=over 4

=item *

COMP_zlib() returns a B<COMP_METHOD> for stream-based ZLIB compression.

=item *

COMP_brotli() returns a B<COMP_METHOD> for stream-based Brotli compression.

=item *

COMP_brotli_oneshot() returns a B<COMP_METHOD> for one-shot Brotli compression.

=back

BIO_f_zlib() and BIO_f_brotli() each return a B<BIO_METHOD> that may be used to
create a B<BIO> via B<BIO_new> to read and write compressed files or streams.
The functions are only available if the coresponding algorithm is compiled into
the OpenSSL library.

=head1 NOTES

While compressing non-compressible data, the output may be larger than the
input. Care should be taken to size output buffers appropriate for both
compression and expansion.

Compression support and compression algorithms must be enabled and built into
the library before use. Refer to the INSTALL file when configuring OpenSSL.

ZLIB may be found at L<https://zlib.net>

Brotli may be found at L<https://github.com/google/brotli>.

Compression of SSL/TLS records is not recommended, as it has been
shown to lead to the CRIME attack L<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRIME>.
It is disabled by default by may be enabled by clearing the
SSL_OP_NO_COMPRESSION option.

Compression is also used to support certificate compression as described
in draft-ietf-tls-certificate-compression
L<https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-ietf-tls-certificate-compression-05.txt>.
It may be disabled via the SSL_OP_NO_CERTIFICATE_COMPRESSION option.

COMP_zlib() and COMP_brotli() are both stream-based compression methods.
State is maintained between calls. If an error is returned, the stream is
corrupted, and should be closed.

COMP_zlib_oneshot() is not stream-based, it does not maintain state
between calls. An error in one call does not future calls.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

COMP_CTX_new() returns a B<COMP_CTX> on success, or NULL on failure.

COMP_CTX_get_method(), COMP_zlib(), COMP_brotli(), and COMP_brotli_oneshot()
return a B<COMP_METHOD> on success, or NULL on failure.

COMP_CTX_get_type() and COMP_get_type() return a NID value. On failure,
NID_undef is returned.

COMP_compress_block() and COMP_expand_block() return the number of
bytes stored in the output buffer B<out>. This may be 0. On failure,
-1 is returned.

COMP_get_name() returns a B<const char *> that must not be freed
on success, or NULL on failure.

BIO_f_zlib() and BIO_f_brotli() return a B<BIO_METHOD>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BIO_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

Brotli functions were added in OpenSSL 3.0.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
