=pod

=head1 NAME

CRYPTO_THREAD_enable, CRYPTO_THREAD_disable, CRYPTO_THREAD_enabled,
CRYPTO_THREAD_spawn_worker, CRYPTO_THREAD_cap
- thread management functions and misc types

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 typedef enum {
     CRYPTO_WORKER_TERMINATE,
     CRYPTO_WORKER_POLL,
 } CRYPTO_WORKER_CMD;

 int CRYPTO_THREAD_enabled(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx);
 int CRYPTO_THREAD_enable(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx, int max_threads);
 int CRYPTO_THREAD_disable(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx);
 int CRYPTO_THREAD_cap(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx, int max_threads);
 int CRYPTO_THREAD_spawn_worker(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx, CRYPTO_WORKER_CALLBACK cb);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL support for preemptive multitasking. The feature is disabled by
default and it will not be implicitly enabled at any time by OpenSSL itself.

=head2 Context-wide preemption

B<CRYPTO_THREAD_enable> is the single way of enabling preemption. You may
specify the maximal number of threads that OpenSSL is able to spawn as well
as the library context in which preemption is to be enabled. A negative number of
threads amounts to no limit.

To change the maximal number of threads OpenSSL is able to spawn, use
B<CRYPTO_THREAD_cap>. Pass 0 to use supplied workers only and negative number
to indicate no limit.

Once enabled, preemption will remain enabled until an explicit call to
B<CRYPTO_THREAD_disable> is made. The call will fail with zero return code
if there are busy threads/workers. It will terminate any idle user-supplied
workers.

To check whether preemption is enabled for a given context, use
B<CRYPTO_THREAD_enabled>.

It is highly recommended to setup signal masking while threading is enabled.
See B<CRYPTO_SIGNAL_block> for more information.

=head2 Providing workers for OpenSSL

The previous section talks about preemption enablement and ways of limiting
the number of threads that OpenSSL may use in a given context. In a sense
these are (context-)global limits, but they offer no control over when the
threads are spawned. This section introduces a concept of worker threads.

A worker thread is a thread spawned by calling B<CRYPTO_THREAD_spawn_worker>
at any time from your code, assuming threading is enabled.

Each such call spawns a single thread that becomes immediately available for
use in OpenSSL. If there are any tasks requesting preemption at that time,
it will execute one (FIFO), otherwise it will sleep until then.

After the task is completed, the worker may then exit or be reused. This may
be controlled by providing a callback of type
C<typedef CRYPTO_WORKER_CMD (*CRYPTO_WORKER_CALLBACK)(OPENSSL_CTX *, size_t)>
to B<CRYPTO_THREAD_spawn_worker>. If the callback returns B<CRYPTO_WORKER_POLL>,
the worker thread will then pick up/await for a next task. By default, worker
threads are not reused and terminate immediately. Library context and current
queue size are passed to the callback.

=head2 Using workers

OpenSSL imposes no limit on the number of worker threads. Similarly, the number
of worker threads plays no role in the per-context cap on the number of threads
as specified via B<CRYPTO_THREAD_enable> or B<CRYPTO_THREAD_cap>. If capped at
a nonnegative value, OpenSSL will still be able to spawn B<max_threads> threads
itself, however, it will do so when and only when all worker threads are busy.
Similarly, OpenSSL will try to use workers even if there are no limits on the
number of threads that it may spawn.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

B<CRYPTO_THREAD_enable>, B<CRYPTO_THREAD_disable>, B<CRYPTO_THREAD_cap>,
B<CRYPTO_THREAD_spawn_worker> all return 1 on success, 0 on failure.

B<CRYPTO_WORKER_CALLBACK> returns either B<CRYPTO_WORKER_TERMINATE> (or
B<CRYPTO_WORKER_POLL>) to indicate that the worker thread is to terminate
(or to be reused).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CRYPTO_SIGNAL_block(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
