=pod

=head1 NAME

CTLOG_STORE_get0_log_by_id -
Get a Certificate Transparency log from a CTLOG_STORE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ct.h>

 const CTLOG *CTLOG_STORE_get0_log_by_id(const CTLOG_STORE *store,
                                         const uint8_t *log_id,
                                         size_t log_id_len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A Signed Certificate Timestamp (SCT) identifies the Certificate Transparency
(CT) log that issued it using the log's LogID (see RFC 6962, Section 3.2).
Therefore, it is useful to be able to look up more information about a log
(e.g. its public key) using this LogID.

CTLOG_STORE_get0_log_by_id() provides a way to do this. It will find a CTLOG
in a CTLOG_STORE that has a given LogID.

The LogID of a v1 CT log is a fixed-length SHA-256 hash (see RFC 6962),
so B<log_id_len> must be B<CT_V1_HASHLEN> (32) bytes for a lookup to
succeed.  Any other length, or a NULL B<store> or B<log_id>, is rejected
and the function returns NULL without performing a lookup.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

B<CTLOG_STORE_get0_log_by_id> returns a CTLOG with the given LogID, if it
exists in the given CTLOG_STORE, otherwise it returns NULL.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ct(7)>,
L<CTLOG_STORE_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The CTLOG_STORE_get0_log_by_id() function was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
