=pod

=head1 NAME

DTLS_get_data_mtu, DTLS_set_link_mtu, DTLS_get_link_min_mtu, SSL_set_mtu
- DTLS MTU handling

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 size_t DTLS_get_data_mtu(const SSL *ssl);
 long DTLS_set_link_mtu(SSL *ssl, long mtu);
 long DTLS_get_link_min_mtu(SSL *ssl);
 long SSL_set_mtu(SSL *ssl, long mtu);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DTLS_get_data_mtu() obtains the maximum data payload size for the established
DTLS connection I<ssl>, based on the DTLS record MTU and the overhead
of the DTLS record header, encryption and authentication currently in use.

DTLS_set_link_mtu() sets the link layer MTU for the DTLS connection I<ssl>
to I<mtu>. This is the maximum on-the-wire packet size including IP and UDP
headers. OpenSSL subtracts the IP/UDP overhead internally to determine the
maximum DTLS record size, and uses this to fragment handshake messages and
limit the size of application data records.

DTLS_get_link_min_mtu() returns the minimum link MTU that OpenSSL will use
for the DTLS connection I<ssl>. This is the smallest MTU that still allows
DTLS to function properly.

SSL_set_mtu() sets the DTLS record-level MTU for the connection I<ssl> to
I<mtu>. Unlike DTLS_set_link_mtu(), this value should not include IP or UDP
header overhead; it represents the maximum DTLS packet size directly.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

DTLS_get_data_mtu() returns the maximum data payload size on success, or 0
on failure.

DTLS_set_link_mtu() returns 1 on success or 0 on failure.

SSL_set_mtu() returns the MTU value on success or 0 on failure.

DTLS_get_link_min_mtu() returns the minimum link MTU value.

=head1 HISTORY

DTLS_get_data_mtu() was added in OpenSSL 1.1.1.

SSL_set_mtu() was added in OpenSSL 0.9.8.

DTLS_set_link_mtu() and DTLS_get_link_min_mtu() were added in OpenSSL 1.0.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
