=pod

=head1 NAME

ERR_GET_LIB, ERR_GET_FUNC, ERR_GET_REASON, ERR_FATAL_ERROR
- get information from error codes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/err.h>

 int ERR_GET_LIB(unsigned long e);

 int ERR_GET_REASON(unsigned long e);

 int ERR_FATAL_ERROR(unsigned long e);

Deprecated since OpenSSL 3.0, can be hidden entirely by defining
B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value, see
L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 int ERR_GET_FUNC(unsigned long e);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The error code returned by ERR_get_error() consists of a library number
and a reason code.  ERR_GET_LIB() and ERR_GET_REASON() can be used to
extract these.

ERR_FATAL_ERROR() indicates whether a given error code is a fatal error.

The library number describes where the error occurred and the reason code is
the information about what went wrong.

Each sub-library of OpenSSL has a unique library number and reason codes
are unique within each sub-library.  Note that different libraries may
use the same value to signal different reasons.

B<ERR_R_...> reason codes such as B<ERR_R_MALLOC_FAILURE> are globally
unique. However, when checking for sub-library specific reason codes,
be sure to also compare the library number.

The ERR_GET_FUNC() function is deprecated and always returns C<-1>.
The function B<ERR_F_...> macros are defined as C<0>.
Both the ERR_GET_FUNC() function and the B<ERR_F_...> macros are deprecated
without replacement.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The library number, reason code, and whether the error is fatal, respectively.

ERR_GET_FUNC() always returns C<-1>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ERR_GET_LIB() and ERR_GET_REASON() are available in all versions of OpenSSL.

ERR_GET_FUNC() was deprecated in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
