=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY_param_fromid, EVP_PKEY_key_fromid
- functions to create domain parameters and keys from an identity

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 int EVP_PKEY_param_fromid(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, EVP_PKEY **ppkey,
                           void *id, size_t idlen);
 int EVP_PKEY_key_fromid(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx, EVP_PKEY **ppkey,
                         void *id, size_t idlen);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

EVP_PKEY_param_fromid() creates domain parameters, given an identity
I<id> of length I<idlen>.  The result is written to I<*ppkey>.

EVP_PKEY_key_fromid() creates domain parameters, given an identity
I<id> of length I<idlen>.  The result is written to I<*ppkey>.

In both cases, the identity is a byte string.  Exactly what that byte
string contains is undefined here.  This depends on the provider and
what it handles.

=head1 NOTES

These functions only work with key management methods coming from a
provider.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_PKEY_key_fromid() and EVP_PKEY_param_fromid() return 1 for success
and 0 or a negative value for failure.  In particular a return value
of -2 indicates the operation is not supported by the public key
algorithm.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)>, L<provider(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

