=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY_supports_digest_nid - indicate support for signature digest

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>
 int EVP_PKEY_supports_digest_nid(EVP_PKEY *pkey, int nid);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The EVP_PKEY_supports_digest_nid() function queries whether the message digest
NID B<nid> is supported for public key signature operations associated with key
B<pkey>.

=head1 NOTES

If the EVP_PKEY implementation does not explicitly support this method, but
L<EVP_PKEY_get_default_digest_nid(3)> returns a mandatory digest result, then
only that mandatory digest will be supported.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The EVP_PKEY_supports_digest_nid() function returns 1 if the message digest
algorithm identified by B<nid> can be used for public key signature operations
associated with key B<pkey> and 0 if it cannot be used. It returns a negative
value for failure. In particular a return value of -2 indicates the query
operation is not supported by the public key algorithm.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_get_default_digest_nid(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_sign(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_verify(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_verify_recover(3)>,

=head1 HISTORY

The EVP_PKEY_supports_digest_nid() function was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2006-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
