=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_SKEY,
EVP_SKEY_new,
EVP_SKEY_new_raw_key,
EVP_SKEY_up_ref,
EVP_SKEY_free
- opaque symmetric key allocation and handling functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 typedef evp_skey_st EVP_SKEY;

 EVP_SKEY *EVP_SKEY_new(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const char *keymgmtname, const char *propquery);
 EVP_SKEY *EVP_SKEY_new_raw_key(const unsigned char *key, size_t keylen);
 int EVP_SKEY_up_ref(EVP_SKEY *key);
 void EVP_SKEY_free(EVP_SKEY *key);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<EVP_SKEY> is a generic structure to hold symmetric keys as opaque objects.
The keys themselves are often referred to as the "internal key", and are handled by
providers through L<EVP_KEYMGMT(3)>.

Conceptually, an B<EVP_SKEY> internal key may hold a symmetric key, and along
with those, key parameters if the key type requires them.

The EVP_SKEY_new() function allocates an empty B<EVP_SKEY> structure which is
used by OpenSSL to store public and private keys. The reference count is set to
B<1>. It also assigns the B<EVP_KEYMGMT> object associated with the key.

The EVP_SKEY_new_raw_key() function creates the B<EVP_SKEY> object containing the
raw byte representation ot the symmetric keys.

EVP_SKEY_up_ref() increments the reference count of I<key>.

EVP_SKEY_free() decrements the reference count of I<key> and, if the reference
count is zero, frees it up. If I<key> is NULL, nothing is done.

=head1 NOTES

The B<EVP_SKEY> structure is used by various OpenSSL functions which require a
general symmetric key without reference to any particular algorithm.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_SKEY_new() returns either the newly allocated B<EVP_SKEY>
structure or NULL if an error occurred.

EVP_SKEY_up_ref() returns 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 HISTORY

The B<EVP_SKEY> API was introduced in OpenSSL 3.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
