=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_eea3
- EVP 128-EEA3 stream cipher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 const EVP_CIPHER *EVP_eea3(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The 3GPP 128-EEA3 stream cipher for EVP.

The 128-EEA3 is a stream cipher that is used to encrypt or decrypt blocks of data
using a confidentiality key. The block of data may be between 1 and 2 ^ 32 bits
long. The 128-EEA3 algorithm uses ZUC as a keystream generator.

3GPP TS 35.221 is the specification for 128-EEA3 and TS 35.222 is the specification
for ZUC algorithm.

Both 128-EEA3 and ZUC algorithms are standardized first as Chinese national
cryptographic standards - the GM/T 0001-2012 series.

=over 4

=item EVP_eea3()

The 128-EEA3 stream cipher with a 128-bit key based on the ZUC keystream
generation algorithm.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

This function returns a B<EVP_CIPHER> structure that contains the
implementation of the symmetric cipher. See L<EVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)> for
details of the B<EVP_CIPHER> structure.

=head1 CONFORMING TO

3GPP TS 35.221, 3GPP TS 35.222, GB/T 33133.1-2016, GM/T 0001.1-2012 and
GM/T 0001.2-2012.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<evp(7)>,
L<EVP_EncryptInit(3)>,
L<EVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2018 BaishanCloud. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
