=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch, EVP_SIGNATURE_free, EVP_SIGNATURE_up_ref,
EVP_SIGNATURE_number, EVP_SIGNATURE_is_a, EVP_SIGNATURE_provider,
EVP_SIGNATURE_do_all_provided, EVP_SIGNATURE_names_do_all
- Functions to manage EVP_SIGNATURE algorithm objects

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 EVP_SIGNATURE *EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx, const char *algorithm,
                                    const char *properties);
 void EVP_SIGNATURE_free(EVP_SIGNATURE *signature);
 int EVP_SIGNATURE_up_ref(EVP_SIGNATURE *signature);
 int EVP_SIGNATURE_number(const EVP_SIGNATURE *signature);
 int EVP_SIGNATURE_is_a(const EVP_SIGNATURE *signature, const char *name);
 OSSL_PROVIDER *EVP_SIGNATURE_provider(const EVP_SIGNATURE *signature);
 void EVP_SIGNATURE_do_all_provided(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx,
                                    void (*fn)(EVP_SIGNATURE *signature,
                                               void *arg),
                                    void *arg);
 void EVP_SIGNATURE_names_do_all(const EVP_SIGNATURE *signature,
                                 void (*fn)(const char *name, void *data),
                                 void *data);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch() fetches the implementation for the given
B<algorithm> from any provider offering it, within the criteria given
by the B<properties>.
The algorithm will be one offering functions for performing signature related
tasks such as signing and verifying.
See L<provider(7)/Fetching algorithms> for further information.

The returned value must eventually be freed with EVP_SIGNATURE_free().

EVP_SIGNATURE_free() decrements the reference count for the B<EVP_SIGNATURE>
structure. Typically this structure will have been obtained from an earlier call
to EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch(). If the reference count drops to 0 then the
structure is freed.

EVP_SIGNATURE_up_ref() increments the reference count for an B<EVP_SIGNATURE>
structure.

EVP_SIGNATURE_is_a() returns 1 if I<signature> is an implementation of an
algorithm that's identifiable with I<name>, otherwise 0.

EVP_SIGNATURE_provider() returns the provider that I<signature> was fetched from.

EVP_SIGNATURE_do_all_provided() traverses all SIGNATURE implemented by all
activated roviders in the given library context I<libctx>, and for each of the
implementations, calls the given function I<fn> with the implementation method
and the given I<arg> as argument.

EVP_SIGNATURE_number() returns the internal dynamic number assigned to
I<signature>.

EVP_SIGNATURE_names_do_all() traverses all names for I<signature>, and calls
I<fn> with each name and I<data>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch() returns a pointer to an B<EVP_SIGNATURE> for success
or B<NULL> for failure.

EVP_SIGNATURE_up_ref() returns 1 for success or 0 otherwise.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<provider(7)/Fetching algorithms>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
