=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_SKEY_import, EVP_SKEY_export, EVP_SKEY_get_raw_key
- functions to create opaque symmetric keys from user data and export keydata

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 int EVP_SKEY_import(EVP_SKEY *skey, const OSSL_PARAM *params);
 int EVP_SKEY_export(const EVP_SKEY *skey, int selection,
                     OSSL_CALLBACK *export_cb, void *export_cbarg);
 int EVP_SKEY_get_raw_key(const EVP_SKEY *skey, unsigned char *key, size_t *len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The functions described here are used to create new keys from user
provided key data, such as I<n>, I<e> and I<d> for a minimal RSA
keypair.

The EVP_SKEY_import() function creates the structure to store a key to a
B<EVP_SKEY> object created by EVP_SKEY_new() The exact key data that the user
can pass depends on the key type and the provider in use.  These are passed as
an L<OSSL_PARAM(3)> array.

Parameters in the I<params> array that are not among the settable parameters
for the given I<selection> are ignored.

The EVP_SKEY_export() function extracts values from a key I<skey> using the
I<selection>.  I<selection> is described below. It uses a callback I<export_cb>
that gets passed the value of I<export_cbarg>.  See L<openssl-core.h(7)> for
more information about the callback. Note that the L<OSSL_PARAM(3)> array that
is passed to the callback is not persistent after the callback returns.

L<OSSL_PARAM_free(3)> should be used to free the returned parameters in
I<*params>.

The EVP_SKEY_get_raw_key() function copies raw key bytes to the passed buffer
and sets the real key len. The operation can fail when the underlying key
management doesn't support export of the secret key.

=head2 Selections

The following constants can be used for I<selection>:

=over 4

=item B<OSSL_KEYMGMT_SELECT_SECRET_KEY>

Only raw key representation will be selected.

=item B<OSSL_KEYMGMT_SELECT_ALL_PARAMETERS>

Only key parameters will be selected. This includes optional key
parameters.

=item B<OSSL_KEYMGMT_SELECT_ALL>

All parameters will be selected.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_SKEY_import() and EVP_SKEY_export() return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_SKEY_new(3)>, L<provider(7)>, L<OSSL_PARAM(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 3.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
