=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_KDF_CTX, EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id, EVP_KDF_CTX_free, EVP_KDF_reset,
EVP_KDF_ctrl, EVP_KDF_vctrl, EVP_KDF_ctrl_str, EVP_KDF_size,
EVP_KDF_derive - EVP KDF routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/kdf.h>

 typedef struct evp_kdf_ctx_st EVP_KDF_CTX;

 EVP_KDF_CTX *EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id(int id);
 void EVP_KDF_CTX_free(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx);
 void EVP_KDF_reset(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx);
 int EVP_KDF_ctrl(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx, int cmd, ...);
 int EVP_KDF_vctrl(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx, int cmd, va_list args);
 int EVP_KDF_ctrl_str(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx, const char *type, const char *value);
 size_t EVP_KDF_size(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx);
 int EVP_KDF_derive(EVP_KDF_CTX *ctx, unsigned char *key, size_t keylen);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The EVP KDF routines are a high level interface to Key Derivation Function
algorithms and should be used instead of algorithm-specific functions.

After creating a C<EVP_KDF_CTX> for the required algorithm using
EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id(), inputs to the algorithm are supplied using calls to
EVP_KDF_ctrl(), EVP_KDF_vctrl() or EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() before calling
EVP_KDF_derive() to derive the key.

=head2 Types

B<EVP_KDF_CTX> is a context type that holds the algorithm inputs.

=head2 Context manipulation functions

EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id() creates a KDF context for the algorithm identified by the
specified NID.

EVP_KDF_CTX_free() frees up the context C<ctx>.  If C<ctx> is C<NULL>, nothing
is done.

=head2 Computing functions

EVP_KDF_reset() resets the context to the default state as if the context
had just been created.

EVP_KDF_ctrl() is used to provide inputs to the KDF algorithm prior to
EVP_KDF_derive() being called.  The inputs that may be provided will vary
depending on the KDF algorithm or its implementation.  This functions takes
variable arguments, the exact expected arguments depend on C<cmd>.
See L</CONTROLS> below for a description of standard controls.

EVP_KDF_vctrl() is the variant of EVP_KDF_ctrl() that takes a C<va_list>
argument instead of variadic arguments.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() allows an application to send an algorithm specific control
operation to a context C<ctx> in string form.  This is intended to be used for
options specified on the command line or in text files.

EVP_KDF_size() returns the output size if the algorithm produces a fixed amount
of output and C<SIZE_MAX> otherwise.  If an error occurs then 0 is returned.
For some algorithms an error may result if input parameters necessary to
calculate a fixed output size have not yet been supplied.

EVP_KDF_derive() derives C<keylen> bytes of key material and places it in the
C<key> buffer.  If the algorithm produces a fixed amount of output then an
error will occur unless the C<keylen> parameter is equal to that output size,
as returned by EVP_KDF_size().

=head1 CONTROLS

The standard controls are:

=over 4

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_PASS>

This control expects two arguments: C<unsigned char *pass>, C<size_t passlen>

Some KDF implementations require a password.  For those KDF implementations
that support it, this control sets the password.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() takes two type strings for this control:

=over 4

=item "pass"

The value string is used as is.

=item "hexpass"

The value string is expected to be a hexadecimal number, which will be
decoded before being passed on as the control value.

=back

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SALT>

This control expects two arguments: C<unsigned char *salt>, C<size_t saltlen>

Some KDF implementations can take a salt.  For those KDF implementations that
support it, this control sets the salt.

The default value, if any, is implementation dependent.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() takes two type strings for this control:

=over 4

=item "salt"

The value string is used as is.

=item "hexsalt"

The value string is expected to be a hexadecimal number, which will be
decoded before being passed on as the control value.

=back

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_ITER>

This control expects one argument: C<int iter>

Some KDF implementations require an iteration count. For those KDF implementations that support it, this control sets the iteration count.

The default value, if any, is implementation dependent.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type string: "iter"

The value string is expected to be a decimal number.

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_MAC>

This control expects one argument: C<EVP_MAC *mac>

Some KDF implementations use a MAC as an underlying computation
algorithm, this control sets what the MAC algorithm should be.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type string: "mac"

The value string is expected to be the name of a MAC.

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_MD>

This control expects one argument: C<EVP_MD *md>

For MAC implementations that use a message digest as an underlying computation
algorithm, this control set what the digest algorithm should be.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type string: "md"

The value string is expected to be the name of a digest.

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_KEY>

This control expects two arguments: C<unsigned char *key>, C<size_t keylen>

Some KDF implementations require a key.  For those KDF implementations that
support it, this control sets the key.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() takes two type strings for this control:

=over 4

=item "key"

The value string is used as is.

=item "hexkey"

The value string is expected to be a hexadecimal number, which will be
decoded before being passed on as the control value.

=back

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_MAC_SIZE>

This control expects one argument: C<size_t size>

Used by implementations that use a MAC with a variable output size (KMAC). For
those KDF implementations that support it, this control sets the MAC output size.

The default value, if any, is implementation dependent.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type string: "outlen"

The value string is expected to be a decimal number.

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_MAXMEM_BYTES>

This control expects one argument: C<uint64_t maxmem_bytes>

Memory-hard password-based KDF algorithms, such as scrypt, use an amount of
memory that depends on the load factors provided as input.  For those KDF
implementations that support it, this control sets an upper limit on the amount
of memory that may be consumed while performing a key derivation.  If this
memory usage limit is exceeded because the load factors are chosen too high,
the key derivation will fail.

The default value is implementation dependent.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type string: "maxmem_bytes"

The value string is expected to be a decimal number.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id() returns either the newly allocated C<EVP_KDF_CTX>
structure or C<NULL> if an error occurred.

EVP_KDF_CTX_free() and EVP_KDF_reset() do not return a value.

EVP_KDF_size() returns the output size.  C<SIZE_MAX> is returned to indicate
that the algorithm produces a variable amount of output; 0 to indicate failure.

The remaining functions return 1 for success and 0 or a negative value for
failure.  In particular, a return value of -2 indicates the operation is not
supported by the KDF algorithm.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_KDF_SCRYPT(7)>
L<EVP_KDF_TLS1_PRF(7)>
L<EVP_KDF_PBKDF2(7)>
L<EVP_KDF_HKDF(7)>
L<EVP_KDF_SS(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality was added to OpenSSL 3.0.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
