=pod

=head1 NAME

i2d_ASN1_bio_stream, i2d_CMS_bio_stream, i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream
- output ASN.1 structures in BER format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/asn1.h>

 int i2d_ASN1_bio_stream(BIO *out, ASN1_VALUE *val, BIO *in, int flags,
                         const ASN1_ITEM *it);

 #include <openssl/cms.h>

 int i2d_CMS_bio_stream(BIO *out, CMS_ContentInfo *cms, BIO *data, int flags);

 #include <openssl/pkcs7.h>

 int i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream(BIO *out, PKCS7 *p7, BIO *data, int flags);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

i2d_ASN1_bio_stream() outputs an ASN1_VALUE structure in BER format.
The I<it> parameter specifies the B<ASN1_ITEM> that describes the structure
type. If the B<SMIME_STREAM> flag is set in I<flags>, streaming mode is used
where content from BIO I<in> is processed through an encoding BIO chain for
structures that support indefinite length encoding. If B<SMIME_STREAM> is not
set, I<in> is ignored and the structure is written directly to I<out>.

i2d_CMS_bio_stream() outputs a CMS_ContentInfo structure in BER format.
It is otherwise identical to the function SMIME_write_CMS().

i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream() outputs a PKCS7 structure in BER format.
It is otherwise identical to the function SMIME_write_PKCS7().

Both i2d_CMS_bio_stream() and i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream() are implemented using
i2d_ASN1_bio_stream() internally.

=head1 NOTES

These functions are effectively versions of the corresponding i2d functions
that support streaming.

=head1 BUGS

The prefix "i2d" is arguably wrong because these functions output BER format.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions return 1 for success or 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<CMS_sign(3)>, L<CMS_verify(3)>, L<CMS_encrypt(3)>, L<CMS_decrypt(3)>,
L<PKCS7_sign(3)>, L<PKCS7_verify(3)>, L<PKCS7_encrypt(3)>, L<PKCS7_decrypt(3)>,
L<SMIME_write_CMS(3)>, L<SMIME_write_PKCS7(3)>,
L<PEM_write_bio_CMS_stream(3)>, L<PEM_write_bio_PKCS7_stream(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

i2d_ASN1_bio_stream(), i2d_CMS_bio_stream() and i2d_PKCS7_bio_stream()
were added in OpenSSL 1.0.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
