=pod

=head1 NAME

NCONF_new, NCONF_set_libctx, NCONF_get_libctx, NCONF_free, NCONF_default,
NCONF_load
- functionality to Load and parse configuration files manually

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/conf.h>

 CONF *NCONF_new(CONF_METHOD *meth);
 int NCONF_set_libctx(CONF *conf, OPENSSL_CTX *libctx);
 OPENSSL_CTX *NCONF_get_libctx(const CONF *conf);
 void NCONF_free(CONF *conf);
 CONF_METHOD *NCONF_default(void);
 int NCONF_load(CONF *conf, const char *file, long *eline);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NCONF_new() creates a new CONF object. If the method table I<meth> is set to
NULL then the default value of NCONF_default() is used.

NCONF_free() frees the data associated with I<conf> and then frees the I<conf>
object.

NCONF_set_libctx() assigns the context I<libctx> to the CONF object I<conf>.
This library context can be used when needed when processing I<conf>, such
as when calling L<CONF_modules_load(3)> with it.

NCONF_get_libctx() returns the library context that is assigned to I<conf>.

NCONF_load() parses the file named I<filename> and adds the values found to
I<conf>. If an error occurs I<file> and I<eline> list the file and line that
the load failed on if they are not NULL.

NCONF_default() gets the default method table for processing a configuration file.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

NCONF_new() return a newly created I<CONF> object or NULL if an error occurs.

NCONF_set_libctx() returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

NCONF_get_libctx() returns the library context assigned to the B<CONF>.
NULL is the default library context.

NCONF_load() returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CONF_modules_load_file(3)>,

=head1 HISTORY

NCONF_new_with_libctx() was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
