=pod

=head1 NAME

OBJ_NAME_do_all, OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted,
OBJ_NAME,
OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MD_METH, OBJ_NAME_TYPE_CIPHER_METH, OBJ_NAME_TYPE_PKEY_METH,
OBJ_NAME_TYPE_COMP_METH, OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MAC_METH, OBJ_NAME_TYPE_KDF_METH
- iterate over objects of a given type

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/objects.h>

 typedef struct obj_name_st OBJ_NAME;
 struct obj_name_st {
     int type;
     int alias;
     const char *name;
     const char *data;
 };

 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MD_METH     0x01
 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_CIPHER_METH 0x02
 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_PKEY_METH   0x03
 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_COMP_METH   0x04
 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MAC_METH    0x05
 #define OBJ_NAME_TYPE_KDF_METH    0x06

 void OBJ_NAME_do_all(int type,
                      void (*fn)(const OBJ_NAME *, void *arg),
                      void *arg);
 void OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted(int type,
                             void (*fn)(const OBJ_NAME *, void *arg),
                             void *arg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OBJ_NAME_do_all() calls the function I<fn> for each object of type I<type>
in the internal globally defined name table. This table maps algorithm names
to their implementations and is used by OpenSSL to look up ciphers, digests,
and other cryptographic methods by name. The I<arg> value is passed as the
second argument to each call of I<fn>. The order in which objects are
iterated is undefined.

OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted() is similar to OBJ_NAME_do_all(), except that the
objects being iterated over are sorted by name using strcmp(3).

The I<type> argument specifies which category of objects to iterate over.
The following type values are defined:

=over 4

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MD_METH>

Digest methods (message digests).

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_CIPHER_METH>

Cipher methods.

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_PKEY_METH>

Public key methods.

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_COMP_METH>

Compression methods.

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MAC_METH>

MAC methods.

=item B<OBJ_NAME_TYPE_KDF_METH>

KDF methods.

=back

The callback function I<fn> receives a pointer to an immutable B<OBJ_NAME>
structure containing information about each object. The I<type> field indicates the
object type. The I<alias> field is nonzero if this name is an alias for
another name. The I<name> field contains the object name. The I<data> field
contains type-specific data associated with the object.

=head1 NOTES

These functions are typically used to enumerate available algorithms,
for example, to display a list of supported digest or cipher algorithms.

B<These functions are not thread safe.> They must not be called concurrently
with functions that modify the object name table, such as OBJ_NAME_add() or
OBJ_NAME_remove(). The object enumeration functions do not acquire locks,
whereas the modification functions do. Calling these functions concurrently
with modifications to the object table may result in undefined behavior.

In practice, this means these functions should only be called during
single-threaded initialization or after all objects have been added to
the table.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OBJ_NAME_do_all() and OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted() do not return a value.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Print all available digest algorithm names:

 static void print_digest(const OBJ_NAME *name, void *arg)
 {
     if (name->alias == 0)
         printf("%s\n", name->name);
 }

 void list_digests(void)
 {
     OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted(OBJ_NAME_TYPE_MD_METH, print_digest, NULL);
 }

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OBJ_nid2obj(3)>, L<EVP_MD_do_all_provided(3)>, L<EVP_CIPHER_do_all_provided(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

OBJ_NAME_do_all() and OBJ_NAME_do_all_sorted() were added in OpenSSL 0.9.7.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
