=pod

=head1 NAME

OCSP_sendreq_new,
OCSP_sendreq_nbio,
OCSP_sendreq_bio,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_i2d,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_add1_header,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_free,
OCSP_set_max_response_length,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req
- OCSP responder query functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ocsp.h>

 OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX *OCSP_sendreq_new(BIO *io, const char *path,
                                     const OCSP_REQUEST *req, int maxline);

 int OCSP_sendreq_nbio(OCSP_RESPONSE **presp, OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX *rctx);

 OCSP_RESPONSE *OCSP_sendreq_bio(BIO *io, const char *path, OCSP_REQUEST *req);

Deprecated since OpenSSL 3.0, can be hidden entirely by defining
B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value, see
L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 int OCSP_REQ_CTX_i2d(OCSP_REQ_CT *rctx, const ASN1_ITEM *it, ASN1_VALUE *req);
 int OCSP_REQ_CTX_add1_header(OCSP_REQ_CT *rctx,
                              const char *name, const char *value);
 void OCSP_REQ_CTX_free(OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX *rctx);
 void OCSP_set_max_response_length(OCSP_REQ_CT *rctx,
                                   unsigned long len);
 int OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req(OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX *rctx, const OCSP_REQUEST *req);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions perform an OCSP POST request / response transfer over HTTP,
using the HTTP request functions described in L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX(3)>.

The function OCSP_sendreq_new() builds a complete B<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX>
structure using connection B<BIO> I<io>, the URL path I<path>, the OCSP
request I<req>, and with a response header maximum line length of I<maxline>.
If I<maxline> is zero a default value of 4k is used.
The I<req> may be set to NULL and provided later using OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req()
or L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_i2d(3)> .

The I<io> and I<path> arguments to OCSP_sendreq_new() correspond to the
components of the URL.
For example if the responder URL is C<http://example.com/ocspreq> the BIO
I<io> should be connected to host C<example.com> on port 80 and I<path>
should be set to C</ocspreq>.

OCSP_sendreq_nbio() performs I/O on the OCSP request context I<rctx>.
When the operation is complete it assigns the response, a pointer to a
B<OCSP_RESPONSE> structure, in I<*presp>.

OCSP_sendreq_bio() is the same as a call to OCSP_sendreq_new() followed by
OCSP_sendreq_nbio() and then OCSP_REQ_CTX_free() in a single call, with a
response header maximum line length 4k. It waits indefinitely on a response.
It does not support setting a timeout or adding headers and is retained
for compatibility; use OCSP_sendreq_nbio() instead.

OCSP_REQ_CTX_i2d(rctx, it, req) is equivalent to the following:

  OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_i2d(rctx, "application/ocsp-request", it, req)

OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req(rctx, req) is equivalent to the following:

 OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_i2d(rctx, "application/ocsp-request",
                       ASN1_ITEM_rptr(OCSP_REQUEST), (ASN1_VALUE *)req)

The other deprecated type and functions have been superseded by the
following equivalents:
B<OCSP_REQ_CTX> by L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX(3)>,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_add1_header() by L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_add1_header(3)>,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_free() by L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_free(3)>, and
OCSP_set_max_response_length() by
L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX_set_max_response_length(3)>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OCSP_sendreq_new() returns a valid B<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX> structure or NULL
if an error occurred.

OCSP_sendreq_nbio(), OCSP_REQ_CTX_i2d(), and OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req()
return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

OCSP_sendreq_bio() returns the B<OCSP_RESPONSE> structure sent by the
responder or NULL if an error occurred.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_HTTP_REQ_CTX(3)>
L<OCSP_cert_to_id(3)>,
L<OCSP_request_add1_nonce(3)>,
L<OCSP_REQUEST_new(3)>,
L<OCSP_resp_find_status(3)>,
L<OCSP_response_status(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

B<OCSP_REQ_CTX>,
OCSP_REQ_CTX_i2d(),
OCSP_REQ_CTX_add1_header(),
OCSP_REQ_CTX_free(),
OCSP_set_max_response_length(),
and OCSP_REQ_CTX_set1_req()
were deprecated in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
