=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_gmtime,
OPENSSL_gmtime_adj,
OPENSSL_gmtime_diff,
OPENSSL_timegm,
OPENSSL_posix_to_tm,
OPENSSL_tm_to_posix - platform-agnostic OpenSSL time routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 struct tm *OPENSSL_gmtime(const time_t *timer, struct tm *result);
 int OPENSSL_gmtime_adj(struct tm *tm, int offset_day, long offset_sec);
 int OPENSSL_gmtime_diff(int *pday, int *psec,
                        const struct tm *from, const struct tm *to);

 #include <openssl/posix_time.h>
 int OPENSSL_timegm(const struct tm *tm, time_t *out_time);
 int OPENSSL_posix_to_tm(int64_t time struct tm *out_tm);
 int OPENSSL_tm_to_posix(struct tm t_tm int64_t *out);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OPENSSL_gmtime() returns the UTC time specified by I<timer> into the
provided I<result> argument. |timer| must be in the range of year 0 to
9999.  Only the fields I<tm_year>, I<tm_mon>, I<tm_mday>, I<tm_hour>,
I<tm_min>, and I<tm_sec> will be updated  in I<result> on success,
all other fields will be zeroed.

OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() adds the offsets in I<offset_day> and I<offset_sec> to I<tm>.

OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() calculates the difference between I<from> and I<to>.

OPENSSL_timegm() converts a time structure in UTC time in I<tm> to a time_t value in
I<out_time>.

OPENSSL_posix_to_tm() converts a int64_t POSIX time value in I<time>,
which must be in the range of year 0 to 9999, to a broken out time
value in I<tm>. Only the fields I<tm_year>, I<tm_mon>, I<tm_mday>,
I<tm_hour>, I<tm_min>, and I<tm_sec> will be updated in I<tm>
on success, all other fields will be zeroed.

OPENSSL_tm_to_posix() converts a time value between the years 0 and 9999 in I<tm>
to a POSIX time value in I<out>.

=head1 NOTES

It is an error to call OPENSSL_gmtime() with I<result> equal to NULL. The
contents of the time_t given by I<timer> are stored into the I<result>. Calling
with I<timer> equal to NULL means use the current time.

OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() converts I<tm> into a days and seconds value, adds the
offsets, then converts back into a I<struct tm> specified by I<tm>. Leap seconds
are not considered.

OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() calculates the difference between the two I<struct tm>
structures I<from> and I<to>. The difference in days is placed into I<*pday>,
the remaining seconds are placed to I<*psec>. The value in I<*psec> will be less
than the number of seconds per day (3600). Leap seconds are not considered.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OPENSSL_gmtime returns I<result> on success or NULL for failure.
It can fail if the time is not representable in a struct tm,
or if the year is less than 0 or more than 9999.

OPENSSL_timegm() returns 1 for success or 0 for failure.
It can fail if the time is not representable in a time_t,
or if the year is less than 0 or more than 9999.

OPENSSL_posix_to_tm() and OPENSSL_tm_to_posix()
return 1 for success or 0 on failure.
It is a failure if the year is less than 0 or more than 9999.

OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() and OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() return 0 on error, and 1 on success.

=head1 HISTORY

OPENSSL_gmtime(), OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() and OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() have been
in OpenSSL since 1.0.0.
OPENSSL_timegm(), OPENSSL_posix_to_tm() and OPENSSL_tm_to_posix() were originally
from BoringSSL and have been in OpenSSL since 4.0.0

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
