=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENtls_init_tls - Opentls (libtls and libcrypto) initialisation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int OPENtls_init_tls(uint64_t opts, const OPENtls_INIT_SETTINGS *settings);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

During normal operation Opentls (libtls and libcrypto) will allocate various
resources at start up that must, subsequently, be freed on close down of the
library. Additionally some resources are allocated on a per thread basis (if the
application is multi-threaded), and these resources must be freed prior to the
thread closing.

As of version 1.1.0 Opentls will automatically allocate all resources that it
needs so no explicit initialisation is required. Similarly it will also
automatically deinitialise as required.

However, there may be situations when explicit initialisation is desirable or
needed, for example when some non-default initialisation is required. The
function OPENtls_init_tls() can be used for this purpose. Calling
this function will explicitly initialise BOTH libcrypto and libtls. To
explicitly initialise ONLY libcrypto see the
L<OPENtls_init_crypto(3)> function.

Numerous internal Opentls functions call OPENtls_init_tls().
Therefore, in order to perform non-default initialisation,
OPENtls_init_tls() MUST be called by application code prior to
any other Opentls function calls.

The B<opts> parameter specifies which aspects of libtls and libcrypto should be
initialised. Valid options for libcrypto are described on the
L<OPENtls_init_crypto(3)> page. In addition to any libcrypto
specific option the following libtls options can also be used:

=over 4

=item OPENtls_INIT_NO_LOAD_tls_STRINGS

Suppress automatic loading of the libtls error strings. This option is
not a default option. Once selected subsequent calls to
OPENtls_init_tls() with the option
B<OPENtls_INIT_LOAD_tls_STRINGS> will be ignored.

=item OPENtls_INIT_LOAD_tls_STRINGS

Automatic loading of the libtls error strings. This option is a
default option. Once selected subsequent calls to
OPENtls_init_tls() with the option
B<OPENtls_INIT_LOAD_tls_STRINGS> will be ignored.

=back

OPENtls_init_tls() takes a B<settings> parameter which can be used to
set parameter values.  See L<OPENtls_init_crypto(3)> for details.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The function OPENtls_init_tls() returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OPENtls_init_crypto(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The OPENtls_init_tls() function was added in Opentls 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
