=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_armcap - the Arm processor capabilities vector

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 env OPENSSL_armcap=... <application>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

libcrypto supports a range of Arm instruction set extensions. These
extensions are represented by bits in the Arm processor capabilities vector.
When libcrypto initializes, it stores the results returned by Arm CPU
capabilities detection logic in the Arm processor capabilities vector. The
CPU capabilities detection methods are OS-dependent, using a combination of
information gathered by the kernel during boot, and probe functions that attempt
to execute instructions and trap illegal instruction signals with a signal
handler.

To override the set of extensions available to an application, set the
B<OPENSSL_armcap> environment variable before starting the application. The
environment variable is assigned a numerical value that denotes the bits in
the Arm processor capabilities vector. The arm_arch.h header file defines
the possible values, which are explained in detail below.

Multiple extensions are enabled by logically OR-ing the values that represent
the desired extensions.

B<Notes>: Attempting to executing an instruction from an extension that the
target CPU does not support will result in an illegal instruction exception
(SIGILL).

Please note that not all possible values in the Arm processor capabilities
vector are actual processor capabilities. Some values represent OpenSSL
performance preferences for some implementations which only make sense on
specific CPUS.

The following extensions are defined:

=over 4

=item 0x0001

Name: B<ARMV7_NEON>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv7 Neon SIMD extensions on the processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv7 Neon SIMD implementations.

=item 0x00002

Name: B<ARMV7_TICK>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv7 system timer on the processor.

Effect: This is used as a seed for some random number generators.

=item 0x00004

Name: B<ARMV8_AES>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.0 AES hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv8.0 AES hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00008

Name: B<ARMV8_SHA1>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.0 SHA1 hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv8.0 SHA1 hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00010

Name: B<ARMV8_SHA256>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.0 SHA256 hardware-acceleration
extensions on the processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv8.0 SHA256 hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00020

Name: B<ARMV8_PMULL>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.0 polynomial multiplication
hardware-acceleration extensions on the processor.

Effect: Used to hardware-accelerate polynomial multiplication, for example in
AES-GCM.

=item 0x00040

Name: B<ARMV8_SHA512>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SHA512 hardware-acceleration
extensions on the processor.

Effect: Enables Armv8.2 SHA512 hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00080

Name: B<ARMV8_CPUID>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.0 hardware identification extensions on
the processor.

Effect: Allows implementations to change their behaviour, dependant on the
processor platform in order to achieve better performance.

=item 0x00100

Name: B<ARMV8_RNG>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.5 hardware random number generation
extensions on the processor.

Effect: Enables hardware random number generation on supported AArch64
processors.

=item 0x00200

Name: B<ARMV8_SM3>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SM3 hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor.

Effect: Enables Armv8.2 SM3 hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00400

Name: B<ARMV8_SM4>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SM4 hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor.

Effect: Enables Armv8.2 SM4 hardware-accelerated implementations.

=item 0x00800

Name: B<ARMV8_SHA3>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SHA3 hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor.

Effect: Enables SHA3 hardware-accelerated implementations (see also
ARMV8_HAVE_SHA3_AND_WORTH_USING).

=item 0x01000

Name: B<ARMV8_UNROLL8_EOR3>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Arm EOR3 instruction, which is a part of the
Armv8.2 SHA3 extensions, and enables 8x Loop unrolling in the AES-CTR
implementation.

Effect: Enables the 8x loop unrolling utilising EOR3 implementation of AES-CTR
on platforms that support the SHA3 extension and have enough vector bandwidth.

=item 0x02000

Name: B<ARMV8_SVE>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SVE hardware extension on the
processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv8.2 SVE implementations.

=item 0x04000

Name: B<ARMV9_SVE2>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv9.0 SVE2 hardware extension on the
processor.

Effect: Enables various Armv9.0 SVE2 implementations.

=item 0x08000

Name: B<ARMV8_HAVE_SHA3_AND_WORTH_USING>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv8.2 SHA3 hardware-acceleration extensions
on the processor, and that the hardware bandwidth is sufficient for it to be
worth using.

Effect: On certain Apple platforms, although the SHA3 extension is supported, it
is actually slower than other implementations. This flag disables the
hardware-accelerated SHA3 implementations on these platforms.

=item 0x10000

Name: B<ARMV8_UNROLL12_EOR3>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Arm EOR3 instruction, which is a part of the
Armv8.2 SHA3 extensions, and enables 12x loop unrolling in the AES-CTR
implementation.

Effect: Enables the 12x loop unrolling utilising EOR3 implementation of AES-CTR
on platforms that support the extension and have enough vector bandwidth.

=item 0x20000

Name: B<ARMV9_SVE2_POLY1305>

Meaning: Indicates support for the Armv9.0 SVE2 hardware extension, and enables
its use in the Poly1305 implementation.

Effect: Enables the Armv9.0 SVE2 Poly1305 implementation if SVE2 is enabled, the
vector length is greater than 128 bits, and the vector length is a power of 2.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Not available.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Check currently detected capabilities:

 $ openssl info -cpusettings
 OPENSSL_armcap=0x987d

The detected capabilities in the above example indicate that ARMV7_NEON,
ARMV8_AES, ARMV8_SHA1, ARMV8_SHA256, ARMV8_PMULL, ARMV8_SHA512, ARMV8_SHA3,
ARMV8_UNROLL8_EOR3, and ARMV8_HAVE_SHA3_AND_WORTH_USING are enabled.

Disable all instruction set extensions:

 export OPENSSL_armcap=0x00

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
