=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_timegm,
OPENSSL_gmtime,
OPENSSL_gmtime_adj,
OPENSSL_gmtime_diff - OpenSSL time routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 int OPENSSL_timegm(struct tm *tm, time_t *t);
 struct tm *OPENSSL_gmtime(const time_t *timer, struct tm *result);
 int OPENSSL_gmtime_adj(struct tm *tm, int off_day, long offset_sec);
 int OPENSSL_gmtime_diff(int *pday, int *psec, const struct tm *from
                         const struct tm *to);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL provides a number of system-independent time functions. All functions
operate on GMT (sometimes referred to as UTC).

OPENSSL_timegm() converts B<tm> into a time_t. It is similar to BSD's timegm()
and is the inverse of POSIX gmtime().

OPENSSL_gmtime() converts B<timer> into struct tm as provided by the B<result>
parameter, which must not be NULL. It is similar to POSIX gmtime().

OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() adds the B<off_day> in days and the B<offset_sec> in
seconds to the B<tm> parameter.

OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() calculates the difference between B<from> and B<to> in days stored in B<pday> and seconds B<psec>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OPENSSL_timegm() returns 1 on success and 0 on failure. A time_t value (the number of seconds since 1970-01-01 0:00:00),
is placed into B<t> if non-NULL.

OPENSSL_gmtime() returns B<result> on success, and NULL on error.

OPENSSL_gmtime_adj() and OPENSSL_gmtime_diff() return 1 on success, and 0 on error.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
