=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_asprintf, OPENSSL_vasprintf
- allocate and format a string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 int OPENSSL_asprintf(char **str, const char *format, ...);
 int OPENSSL_vasprintf(char **str, const char *format, va_list args);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OPENSSL_asprintf() allocates a buffer with OPENSSL_malloc(), formats into
it according to I<format> and the trailing arguments, and stores the
resulting pointer in I<*str>. The caller is responsible for releasing the
buffer with OPENSSL_free(). On failure I<*str> is set to NULL.

OPENSSL_vasprintf() is the C<va_list> form of OPENSSL_asprintf(). The
caller must initialise I<args> with C<va_start()> before calling and must
not use I<args> again after the call returns; the call consumes it.

The asprintf() and vasprintf() extensions provided by the GNU and BSD
C libraries are not standardised by C or POSIX and are not available
on every platform OpenSSL targets. OPENSSL_asprintf() and
OPENSSL_vasprintf() provide equivalent functionality portably. As the
returned buffer is allocated with OPENSSL_malloc() internally, it must
be released with OPENSSL_free() rather than with the C library
free().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

On success, both functions set I<*str> to point to the newly
allocated formatted string and return the number of characters
written (excluding the terminating nul byte). The caller takes
ownership of the returned buffer and must release it with
OPENSSL_free().

On failure (allocation failure or a format error reported by the
underlying vsnprintf(3)), both functions return -1 and set I<*str>
to NULL.

=head1 NOTES

Some asprintf() implementations leave I<*str> undefined on failure;
OPENSSL_asprintf() and OPENSSL_vasprintf() always set it to NULL, but
this should not be relied on - the return value should always be
checked.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BIO_printf(3)>, L<OPENSSL_malloc(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

OPENSSL_asprintf() and OPENSSL_vasprintf() were added in OpenSSL 4.1,
ported from BoringSSL.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
