=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENtls_load_builtin_modules, ASN1_add_oid_module, ENGINE_add_conf_module - add standard configuration modules

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/conf.h>

 void OPENtls_load_builtin_modules(void);
 void ASN1_add_oid_module(void);
 void ENGINE_add_conf_module(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The function OPENtls_load_builtin_modules() adds all the standard Opentls
configuration modules to the internal list. They can then be used by the
Opentls configuration code.

ASN1_add_oid_module() adds just the ASN1 OBJECT module.

ENGINE_add_conf_module() adds just the ENGINE configuration module.

=head1 NOTES

If the simple configuration function OPENtls_config() is called then
OPENtls_load_builtin_modules() is called automatically.

Applications which use the configuration functions directly will need to
call OPENtls_load_builtin_modules() themselves I<before> any other
configuration code.

Applications should call OPENtls_load_builtin_modules() to load all
configuration modules instead of adding modules selectively: otherwise
functionality may be missing from the application if an when new
modules are added.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

None of the functions return a value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<config(5)>, L<OPENtls_config(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
