=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses,
OSSL_CMP_exec_KUR_ses,
OSSL_CMP_exec_CR_ses,
OSSL_CMP_exec_P10CR_ses,
OSSL_CMP_exec_GENM_ses,
OSSL_CMP_exec_RR_ses
- functions implementing CMP client transactions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 X509 *OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *OSSL_CMP_exec_KUR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *OSSL_CMP_exec_CR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx);
 X509 *OSSL_CMP_exec_P10CR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx);
 STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ITAV) *OSSL_CMP_exec_GENM_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx;
 int OSSL_CMP_exec_RR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for doing CMP (Certificate Management Protocol)  client-server
message sequences using with OpenSSL. The default conveying protocol is HTTP.

OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses() does the transaction which obtains an initial certificate
from the CA. A populated OSSL_CMP_CTX structure has to be given as argument.

OSSL_CMP_exec_KUR_ses() does the transaction which obtains an updated
certificate from the CA. A populated OSSL_CMP_CTX structure has to be given
as argument.

OSSL_CMP_exec_CR_ses() requests an additional certificate
from the CA. A populated OSSL_CMP_CTX structure has to be given as argument.

OSSL_CMP_exec_P10CR_ses(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx) requests in PKCS#10 CSR form
a certificate from the CA. A populated OSSL_CMP_CTX structure has to be given
as argument.

OSSL_CMP_exec_GENM_ses() sends a general message with any ITAVs specified in the
B<ctx>->genm_itavs, and returns the list of B<ITAV>s received in the GenRep.
This can be used, for instance, to poll for the CRL or CA Key Updates.

OSSL_CMP_exec_RR_ses() requests the revocation of a certificate at the CA.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses(), OSSL_CMP_exec_CR_ses(),
OSSL_CMP_doPKCS10CertificationRequestSeq(), and OSSL_CMP_exec_KUR_ses()
return a pointer the newly obtained X509 certificate on success, NULL on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

See OSSL_CMP_CTX for examples on how to prepare the context for these
functions.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_create(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
