=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE,
OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_create,
OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_certTemplate,
OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_keySpec_item,
OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_push0_keySpec_item
- OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 typedef ... OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE;
 OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE
 *OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_create(OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE *certTemplate,
                                  STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ATAV) *keySpec);
 OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE
 *OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_certTemplate(const OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE *tmpl);
 OSSL_CMP_ATAV
 *OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_keySpec_item(const OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE *tmpl,
                                             int n);
 int OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_push0_keySpec_item(OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE *tmpl,
                                                 OSSL_CMP_ATAV *item);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

An B<OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE> contains a B<OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE>
and an optional list of key specifications.
It can be used in a B<genp> message to specify the requirements the PKI has
on the certificate template used to request certificates.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_create() creates a new B<OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE>
structure and fills it in using I<certTemplate> and the optional I<keySpec>.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_certTemplate()
returns the certTemplate field of I<tmpl>.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_keySpec_item()
returns the key specification with index I<n> if contained in I<tmpl>.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_push0_keySpec_item()
adds the givne key specification I<item> to in I<tmpl>.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_create() returns a pointer to the created
B<OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE> structure on success, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_certTemplate()
returns a direct pointer to B<OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE>, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_get0_keySpec()
returns a direct pointer to B<OSSL_CMP_ATAV>, NULL if non-existent and on error.

OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_push0_keySpec_item() returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_fill(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_ATAV_create(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The OpenSSL CMP support was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
