=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CRMF_pbm_new,
OSSL_CRMF_pbmp_new
- functions for producing Password-Based MAC (PBM)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/crmf.h>

  int OSSL_CRMF_pbm_new(const OSSL_CRMF_PBMPARAMETER *pbmp,
                        const unsigned char *msg, size_t msglen,
                        const unsigned char *sec, size_t seclen,
                        unsigned char **mac, unsigned int *maclen);

  OSSL_CRMF_PBMPARAMETER *OSSL_CRMF_pbmp_new(size_t saltlen, int owfnid,
                                             long itercnt, int macnid);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CRMF_pbm_new() generates a PBM (Password-Based MAC) based on given PBM
parameters B<pbmp>, message B<msg>, and secret B<sec>, along with the respective
lengths B<msglen> and B<seclen>. Will write the adddress of the newly allocated
MAC via the B<mac> reference parameter and the length via the B<maclen> reference
parameter. Any previous pointer referred to by B<mac> will be freed if not NULL.

The iteration count must be at least 100, as stipulated by RFC 4211, and is
limited to at most 100000 to avoid DoS through manipulated or otherwise
malformed input.

OSSL_CRMF_pbmp_new() initializes and returns a new PBMParameter
structure with new a random salt of given length B<saltlen>, OWF (one-way
function) NID B<owfnid>, iteration count B<itercnt>, and MAC NID B<macnid>.

The iteration count is enforced to be at least 100, as stipulated by RFC 4211.

=head1 NOTES

The OWF (one-way function) and for the MAC (message authentication code) may be
any with an NID defined in B<openssl/objects.h>,
which also should include NID_hmac_sha1 which is specified by RFC 4210.

RFC 4210 recommends that the salt SHOULD be at least 8 bytes (64 bits) long.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CRMF_pbm_new() returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

OSSL_CRMF_pbmp_new() returns a new and initialized OSSL_CRMF_PBMPARAMETER
structure, or NULL on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

 OSSL_CRMF_PBMPARAMETER *pbm = NULL;
 unsiged char *msg = "Hello";
 unsiged char *sec = "SeCrEt";
 unsiged char *mac = NULL;
 unsiged int maclen;

 if ((pbm = OSSL_CRMF_pbmp_new(16, NID_sha256, 500, NID_hmac_sha1) == NULL))
     goto err;
 if (!OSSL_CRMF_pbm_new(pbm, msg, 5, sec, 6, &mac, &maclen))
     goto err;

=head1 SEE ALSO

RFC 4211 section 4.4

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
