=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_PROVIDER, OSSL_PROVIDER_load, OSSL_PROVIDER_unload,
OSSL_PROVIDER_available,
OSSL_PROVIDER_gettable_params, OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params,
OSSL_PROVIDER_add_builtin, OSSL_PROVIDER_name - provider routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/provider.h>

 typedef struct ossl_provider_st OSSL_PROVIDER;

 OSSL_PROVIDER *OSSL_PROVIDER_load(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx, const char *name);
 int OSSL_PROVIDER_unload(OSSL_PROVIDER *prov);
 int OSSL_PROVIDER_available(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx, const char *name);

 const OSSL_PARAM *OSSL_PROVIDER_gettable_params(OSSL_PROVIDER *prov);
 int OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params(OSSL_PROVIDER *prov, OSSL_PARAM params[]);

 int OSSL_PROVIDER_add_builtin(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx, const char *name,
                               ossl_provider_init_fn *init_fn);

 const char *OSSL_PROVIDER_name(const OSSL_PROVIDER *prov);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OSSL_PROVIDER> is a type that holds internal information about
implementation providers (see L<provider(7)> for information on what a
provider is).
A provider can be built in to the application or the OpenSSL
libraries, or can be a loadable module.
The functions described here handle both forms.

Some of these functions operate within a library context, please see
L<OPENSSL_CTX(3)> for further details.

=head2 Functions

OSSL_PROVIDER_add_builtin() is used to add a built in provider to
B<OSSL_PROVIDER> store in the given library context, by associating a
provider name with a provider initialization function.
This name can then be used with OSSL_PROVIDER_load().

OSSL_PROVIDER_load() loads and initializes a provider.
This may simply initialize a provider that was previously added with
OSSL_PROVIDER_add_builtin() and run its given initialization function,
or load a provider module with the given name and run its provider
entry point, C<OSSL_provider_init>.

OSSL_PROVIDER_unload() unloads the given provider.
For a provider added with OSSL_PROVIDER_add_builtin(), this simply
runs its teardown function.

OSSL_PROVIDER_available() checks if a named provider is available
for use.

OSSL_PROVIDER_gettable_params() is used to get a provider parameter
descriptor set as a constant B<OSSL_PARAM> array.
See L<OSSL_PARAM(3)> for more information.

OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params() is used to get provider parameter values.
The caller must prepare the B<OSSL_PARAM> array before calling this
function, and the variables acting as buffers for this parameter array
should be filled with data when it returns successfully.

OSSL_PROVIDER_name() returns the name of the given provider.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_PROVIDER_add() returns 1 on success, or 0 on error.

OSSL_PROVIDER_load() returns a pointer to a provider object on
success, or B<NULL> on error.

OSSL_PROVIDER_unload() returns 1 on success, or 0 on error.

OSSL_PROVIDER_available() returns 1 if the named provider is available,
otherwise 0.

OSSL_PROVIDER_gettable_params() returns a pointer to an array
of constant B<OSSL_PARAM>, or NULL if none is provided.

OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params() returns 1 on success, or 0 on error.

=head1 EXAMPLES

This demonstrates how to load the provider module "foo" and ask for
its build number.

 OSSL_PROVIDER *prov = NULL;
 const char *build = NULL;
 size_t built_l = 0;
 OSSL_PARAM request[] = {
     { "build", OSSL_PARAM_UTF8_STRING_PTR, &build, 0, &build_l },
     { NULL, 0, NULL, 0, NULL }
 };

 if ((prov = OSSL_PROVIDER_load(NULL, "foo")) != NULL
     && OSSL_PROVIDER_get_params(prov, request))
     printf("Provider 'foo' build %s\n", build);
 else
     ERR_print_errors_fp(stderr);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl-core.h(7)>, L<OPENSSL_CTX(3)>, L<provider(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

The type and functions described here were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
