=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_PARAM_get_TYPE, OSSL_PARAM_set_TYPE, OSSL_PARAM_get_BN, OSSL_PARAM_set_BN
- OSSL_PARAM helpers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for comment generic

 #include <openssl/params.h>

 OSSL_PARAM_TYPE(key, address)
 OSSL_PARAM_SIZED_TYPE(key, address, return_size)
 OSSL_PARAM_SIZED_BN(key, address, size, return_size)
 OSSL_PARAM_END

 int OSSL_PARAM_get_TYPE(const OSSL_PARAM *p, const char *key, TYPE *val);
 int OSSL_PARAM_set_TYPE(const OSSL_PARAM *p, const char *key, TYPE val);

 int OSSL_PARAM_get_BN(const OSSL_PARAM *p, const char *key, BIGNUM **val);
 int OSSL_PARAM_set_BN(const OSSL_PARAM *p, const char *key, const BIGNUM *val);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A collection of utility functions that simplify and add type safety to the
OSSL_PARAM arrays.  The following B<TYPE> names are supported:

=over 1

=item *

double

=item *

int

=item *

int32 (int32_t)

=item *

int64 (int64_t)

=item *

long int (long)

=item *

size_t

=item *

uint32 (uint32_t)

=item *

uint64 (uint64_t)

=item *

unsigned int (uint)

=item *

unsigned long int (ulong)

=back

OSSL_PARAM_TYPE() are a series of macros designed to assist initialising an
array of OSSL_PARAM structures.
Each of these macros defines a parameter of the specified B<TYPE> with the
provided B<key> and parameter variable B<address>.

OSSL_PARAM_SIZED_TYPE() are a second series of macros designed to assist with
the initialisation of OSSL_PARAM structures.
They are similar to the OSSL_PARAM_TYPE() but also include a B<return_size>
argument which contains the address of a size_t variable which will be
populated with the actual size of the parameter upon return from a
OSSL_PARAM_set_TYPE() call.

OSSL_PARAM_SIZED_BN() is a macro that provides support for defining large
integers in an OSSL_PARAM array.
A parameter with name B<key> is defined.
The storage for this parameter is at B<address> and is of B<size> bytes.
The size used by the parameter value, in bytes, is written to B<return_size>.

OSSL_PARAM_END provides an end of parameter list marker.
This should terminate all OSSL_PARAM arrays.

OSSL_PARAM_get_TYPE() retrieves a value of type B<TYPE> from the parameter
array B<p> using the B<key>.
The value is copied to the address B<val>.
Type coercion takes place as discussed in NOTES section.

OSSL_PARAM_set_TYPE() stores a value B<val> of type B<TYPE> into the paramter
array B<p> using the B<key>.
Type coercion takes place as discussed in NOTES section.

OSSL_PARAM_get_BN() retrieves a BIGNUM from the parameter B<key> in the
array pointed to by B<p>.
The BIGNUM referenced by B<val> is updated and is allocated if B<*val> is
B<NULL>.

OSSL_PARAM_set_BN() stores the BIGNUM B<val> into the paramater array B<p> at
the position indicated by B<key>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All of these functions return B<1> on success and B<0> on failure.

=head1 NOTES

Automatic type coercion takes places between the various sizes of types using
the C conversion rules.
Integral types  will be widened, sign extended and narrowed as required.
Unsigned and signed integer types will be automatically converted.
During widening, signed values will be sign extended and unsigned values
zero extended.
During narrowing, truncation takes place.

Real values will also be converted between float and double and the standard
integral types.
They will not be converted to non-standard integral sizes or BIGNUMs.

=head1 HISTORY

These APIs were introduced in OpenSSL 3.0.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
