=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_certReqTemplate,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get1_certReqTemplate,
OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_new1,
OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_get0,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crlStatusList,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crlStatusList,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crls,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crls
- CMP utility functions for handling specific genm and genp messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts(const STACK_OF(X509) *caCerts);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav, STACK_OF(X509) **out);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert(const X509 *rootCaCert);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav, X509 **out);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate(const X509 *newWithNew,
                                                  const X509 *newWithOld,
                                                  const X509 *oldWithNew);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav,
                                        X509 **newWithNew,
                                        X509 **newWithOld,
                                        X509 **oldWithNew);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV
 *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_certReqTemplate(OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE *certTemplate,
                                     OSSL_CMP_ATAVS *keySpec);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get1_certReqTemplate(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav,
                                        OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE **certTemplate,
                                        OSSL_CMP_ATAVS **keySpec);
 OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS *OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_new1(const DIST_POINT_NAME *dpn,
                                             const GENERAL_NAMES *issuer,
                                             const ASN1_TIME *thisUpdate);
 int OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_get0(const OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS *crlstatus,
                             DIST_POINT_NAME **dpn, GENERAL_NAMES **issuer,
                             ASN1_TIME **thisUpdate);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV
 *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crlStatusList(STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS) *crlStatusList);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crlStatusList(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav,
                                      STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS) **out);
 OSSL_CMP_ITAV
 *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crls(STACK_OF(X509_CRL) *crls);
 int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crls(const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav, STACK_OF(X509_CRL) **out);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ITAV is short for InfoTypeAndValue.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure of type
B<caCerts> and fills it with a copy of the provided list of certificates.
The I<caCerts> argument may be NULL or contain any number of certificates.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts() requires that I<itav> has type B<caCerts>.
It assigns NULL to I<*out> if there are no CA certificates in I<itav>, otherwise
the internal pointer of type B<STACK_OF(X509)> with the certificates present.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure of type
B<rootCaCert> that includes a copy of the given certificate
if I<rootCaCert> is not NULL.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert() requires that I<itav> has type B<rootCaCert>.
It assigns NULL to I<*out> if there is no certificate in I<itav>, otherwise
the internal pointer to the certificate contained in the infoValue field.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure
of type B<rootCaKeyUpdate> that has no RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure if
I<newWithNew> is NULL and otherwise includes a RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure
with copies of the I<newWithNew> certificate
and of the optionally given certificates I<newWithOld> and I<oldWithNew>.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate()
requires that I<itav> has type B<rootCaKeyUpdate>.
It assigns NULL to I<*newWithNew> if no root CA key update value is in I<itav>,
otherwise an internal pointer to the certificate contained in the newWithNew
field of the RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure.
If I<newWithOld> is not NULL, it assigns to I<*newWithOld> an internal pointer
to the certificate contained in the newWithOld field.
If I<oldWithNew> is not NULL, it assigns to I<*oldWithNew> an internal pointer
to the certificate contained in the oldWithNew field.
Each of these two pointers will be NULL if no root CA key update value
is in I<itav> or the respective field is not present.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_certReqTemplate() creates an B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure
of type B<certReqTemplate>.
If I<certTemplate> is NULL then also I<keySpec> must be NULL,
and the resulting ITAV can be used in a B<genm> message to obtain the
requirements a PKI has on the certificate template used to request certificates,
or in a B<genp> message stating that there are no such requirements.
Otherwise the resulting ITAV includes a CertReqTemplateValue structure
with I<certTemplate> of type B<OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE> and an optional list
of key specifications I<keySpec>, each being of type B<OSSL_CMP_ATAV>, and
the resulting ATAV can be used in a B<genp> message to provide requirements.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get1_certReqTemplate()
requires that I<itav> has type B<certReqTemplate>.
If assigns NULL to I<*certTemplate> if no B<OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE> structure
with a certificate template value is in I<itav>,
otherwise a copy of the certTemplate field value.
If I<keySpec> is not NULL, it is assigned NULL
if the structure is not present in I<itav> or the keySpec field is absent.
Otherwise, the function checks that all elements of keySpec field are of type
B<algId> or B<rsaKeyLen> and assigns to I<*keySpec> a copy of the keySpec field.

OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_new1() allocates a new B<OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS> structure
that contains either a copy of the distribution point name I<dpn>
or a copy of the certificate issuer I<issuer>, while giving both is an error.
If given, a copy of the CRL issuance time I<thisUpdate> is also included.

OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_get0() reads the fields of I<crlstatus>
and assigns them to either I<*dpn> or I<*issuer>, and to I<*thisUpdate>.
Depending on the choice present, I<*dpn> or I<*issuer> will be NULL.
I<*thisUpdate> can als be NULL if the field is not present.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crlStatusList() creates a new B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure of
type B<crlStatusList> that includes the optionally given list of
CRL status data, each of which is of type B<OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS>.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crlStatusList() on success assigns to I<*out> an internal
pointer to the list of CRL status data in the infoValue field of I<itav>.
The pointer may be NULL if no CRL status data is included.
It is an error if the infoType of I<itav> is not B<crlStatusList>.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crls() creates a new B<OSSL_CMP_ITAV> structure
of type B<crls> that includes the optionally given list of CRLs.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crls() on success assigns to I<*out> an internal pointer to
the list of CRLs contained in the infoValue field of I<itav>.
The pointer may be NULL if no CRL is included.
It is an error if the infoType of I<itav> is not B<crls>.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_caCerts(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaCert(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new_rootCaKeyUpdate(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_certReqTemplate(),
OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_new1(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crlStatusList(),
and OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new0_crls()
return a pointer to the new ITAV structure on success, or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_caCerts(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaCert(),
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_rootCaKeyUpdate(), OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get1_certReqTemplate(),
OSSL_CMP_CRLSTATUS_get0, OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crlStatusList(),
and OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_crls()
return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_ITAV_create(3)> and L<OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_type(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The OSSL_CMP_ITAV handling functions were added in OpenSSL 3.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
