=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_ATAV,
OSSL_CMP_ATAV_create,
OSSL_CMP_ATAV_set0,
OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_type,
OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_value,
OSSL_CMP_ATAV_push0_stack_item
- OSSL_CMP_ATAV utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>

  typedef OSSL_CRMF_ATTRIBUTETYPEANDVALUE OSSL_CMP_ATAV;
  OSSL_CMP_ATAV *OSSL_CMP_ATAV_create(ASN1_OBJECT *type, ASN1_TYPE *value);
  void OSSL_CMP_ATAV_set0(OSSL_CMP_ATAV *atav, ASN1_OBJECT *type,
                          ASN1_TYPE *value);
  ASN1_OBJECT *OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_type(const OSSL_CMP_ATAV *atav);
  ASN1_TYPE *OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_value(const OSSL_CMP_ATAV *atav);

  int OSSL_CMP_ATAV_push0_stack_item(STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ATAV) **sk_p,
                                     OSSL_CMP_ATAV *atav);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OSSL_CMP_ATAV> is a short hand of B<OSSL_CRMF_ATTRIBUTETYPEANDVALUE>,
defined in RFC 4211 Appendix B.
It is typically used in CertRequest structures,
but also in CertReqTemplateContent structures for key specifications.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_create() creates a new B<OSSL_CMP_ATAV> structure and fills it in.
It combines OSSL_CMP_ATAV_new() and OSSL_CMP_ATAV_set0().

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_set0() sets the I<atav> with an infoType of I<type> and an
infoValue of I<value>. This function uses the pointers I<type> and I<value>
internally, so they must B<not> be freed up after the call.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_type() returns a direct pointer to the infoType in the
I<atav>.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_value() returns a direct pointer to the infoValue in
the I<atav> as generic B<ASN1_TYPE> pointer.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_push0_stack_item() pushes I<atav> to the stack pointed to
by I<*sk_p>. It creates a new stack if I<*sk_p> points to NULL.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210. CRMF is defined in RFC 4211.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_create() returns a pointer to the ATAV structure on success,
or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_set0() does not return a value.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_type() and OSSL_CMP_ATAV_get0_value()
return the respective pointer or NULL if their input is NULL.

OSSL_CMP_ATAV_push0_stack_item() returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CERTREQTEMPLATE_create(3)>, L<ASN1_TYPE_set(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The OpenSSL CMP support was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
