=pod

=head1 NAME

ossl-labels-and-holds - documentation for contribution workflow labels
and hold handling

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the labels used during a typical OpenSSL-style
contribution workflow and explains how they should be applied during
pull request review.

Labels are used to communicate the state of a pull request, the testing
status of a contribution, and whether a change is currently blocked.

=head1 CONTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS

Before a contribution can be accepted into a project using this workflow,
several requirements must be satisfied.

=head2 Contributor License Agreement (CLA)

Non-trivial contributions should be covered by a valid Contributor
License Agreement (CLA) where required.

For trivial changes, the following label may be applied:

    cla: trivial

Applying this label indicates that the change is sufficiently small that
a CLA is not required.

=head2 Code Review

Changes should be reviewed and approved by at least two qualified
reviewers before being merged.

The author of the pull request should not count as one of the required
approvals.

Once the necessary approvals are received, a waiting period may be used
before the change is merged in order to allow additional reviewers the
opportunity to comment.

=head2 Testing Requirements

Most changes should include appropriate tests. During review, a testing
label should be applied to indicate the test status of the contribution.

Only one testing label should be present on a pull request at any given
time.

=head1 LABEL CATEGORIES

Labels are used during triage and review to indicate the state of a
contribution. Reviewers typically apply labels as the status of a pull
request changes.

=head2 CLA Labels

=over 4

=item B<cla: trivial>

Indicates that the contribution is trivial and does not require a
Contributor License Agreement.

=back

=head2 Testing Labels

=over 4

=item B<tests: present>

Tests are included in the pull request and satisfy the testing policy.

=item B<tests: exempted>

Tests are not required for this change.

=item B<tests: deferred>

Tests will be added in a later pull request.

=item B<hold: tests needed>

Tests are required but are currently missing. This label places the
pull request on hold until tests are provided.

=back

=head2 Severity Labels

=over 4

=item B<severity: urgent>

Indicates that the pull request fixes an urgent problem such as a
continuous integration failure or a build breakage.

Pull requests with this label may bypass the usual waiting period
before merging.

=back

=head2 Governance Hold Labels

Certain changes may require additional decisions before they can
proceed.

=over 4

=item B<hold: needs decision>

A decision is required before the change can proceed.

=back

=head1 APPLYING A HOLD

A hold label is used when a pull request cannot proceed through the
normal review process.

When applying a hold label, reviewers should:

=over 4

=item *

Apply the appropriate C<hold:*> label.

=item *

Add a comment explaining why the hold is required.

=item *

Describe the action needed to resolve the issue.

=back

Example:

    Label applied:
        hold: tests needed

    Comment:
        Additional tests are required before the change
        can proceed.

=head1 LIFTING A HOLD

A hold may be removed once the blocking condition has been resolved.

The following steps should be followed when lifting a hold:

=over 4

=item *

Verify that the blocking issue has been resolved.

=item *

Remove the hold label.

=item *

Apply any replacement labels if necessary.

=item *

Add a comment explaining why the hold was removed.

=back

Example:

    Hold removed:
        hold: tests needed

    Replacement label:
        tests: present

=head1 BEST PRACTICES

Following these recommendations can help streamline the review process:

=over 4

=item *

Provide tests when required.

=item *

Respond promptly to reviewer feedback.

=item *

Keep pull requests focused on a single change whenever possible.

=item *

Ensure labels accurately reflect the current state of the change.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl(1)>

=cut
