=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_LIB_CTX_get_safe_getenv_function,
OSSL_LIB_CTX_set_safe_getenv_function,
OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default,
CRYPTO_safe_getenv_fn
- Callback function for safe environment retrieval

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 typedef const char *(*CRYPTO_safe_getenv_fn)(const char *env, const char *file,
     int line);

 void OSSL_LIB_CTX_set_safe_getenv_function(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx,
     CRYPTO_safe_getenv_fn safe_getenv_fn);

 void OSSL_LIB_CTX_get_safe_getenv_function(const OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx,
     CRYPTO_safe_getenv_fn *safe_getenv_fn);

 char *OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default(const char *env, const char *file,
   int line);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_LIB_CTX_set_safe_getenv_function() sets callback function of the
L<OSSL_LIB_CTX(3)> context. If B<safe_getenv_fn> is NULL, the default
implementation, OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default() is used instead. OpenSSL
will not free or deallocate the provided pointer.

When OpenSSL needs to retrieve an environment variable, L<openssl-env(7)>,
that has access to a B<OSSL_LIB_CTX>, it calls the B<CRYPTO_safe_getenv>
macro resulting to a call to either the user provided function or the
default implementation OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default(). These functions
will return a character string of the value of the provided B<env> variable
, or a NULL if the application isn't in a safe state to be processing that
environment variable.

The OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default() uses B<secure_getenv> is available
or a B<OPENSSL_issetugid>, to return NULL for all environment variables
retrieval where an elevated privileges on the application is current. This
is the identical implementation of L<openssl-env(7)> that has always been
present.

OSSL_LIB_CTX_get_safe_getenv_function(), for completeness, returns the
current function callback and stored in the B<safe_getenv_fn> pointer.

Some OpenSSL function do not have access to a B<OSSL_LIB_CTX> and therefore
will directly use the OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default() function:
* B<def_load_bio>, a method of the L<NCONF_default(3)> structure for parsing
  configuration files.
* L<CONF_modules_load(3)>
* L<OSSL_HTTP_adapt_proxy(3)>
* L<RAND_file_name(3)>

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_LIB_CTX_safe_getenv_default() will return the environment variable
value or NULL, depending on the security context (L<openssl-env(7)>).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl-env(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described on this page were added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
