=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get0_tmpl,
OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_serialNumber,
OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_issuer,
OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_serialNumber,
OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_issuer,
OSSL_CRMF_ENCRYPTEDVALUE_get1_encCert,
OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get_certReqId
- functions reading from CRMF CertReqMsg structures

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crmf.h>

 OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE *OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get0_tmpl(const OSSL_CRMF_MSG *crm);
 ASN1_INTEGER
     *OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_serialNumber(OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE *tmpl);
 X509_NAME *OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_issuer(OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE *tmpl);

 ASN1_INTEGER *OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_serialNumber(const OSSL_CRMF_CERTID *cid);
 X509_NAME *OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_issuer(const OSSL_CRMF_CERTID *cid);

 X509 *OSSL_CRMF_ENCRYPTEDVALUE_get1_encCert(OSSL_CRMF_ENCRYPTEDVALUE *ecert,
                                             EVP_PKEY *pkey);

 int OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get_certReqId(OSSL_CRMF_MSG *crm);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get0_tmpl() retrieves the certificate template of B<crm>.

OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_serialNumber() retrieves the serialNumber of the
given certificate template B<tmpl>.

OSSL_CRMF_CERTTEMPLATE_get0_issuer() retrieves the issuer name of the
given certificate template B<tmpl>.

OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_serialNumber retrieves the serialNumber
of the given CertId B<cid>.

OSSL_CRMF_CERTID_get0_issuer retrieves the issuer name
of the given CertId B<cid>, which must be of ASN.1 type GEN_DIRNAME.

OSSL_CRMF_ENCRYPTEDVALUE_get1_encCert() decrypts the certificate in the given
encryptedValue B<ecert>, using the private key B<pkey>.
This is needed for the indirect PoP method as in RFC 4210 section 5.2.8.2.
The function returns the decrypted certificate as a copy, leaving its ownership
with the caller, who is responsible for freeing it.

OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get_certReqId() retrieves the certReqId of B<crm>.


=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CRMF_MSG_get_certReqId() returns the certificate request ID as a
non-negative integer or -1 on error.

All other functions return a pointer with the intended result or NULL on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<RFC 4211>

=head1 HISTORY

The OpenSSL CRMF support was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
