=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_sleep, OSSL_sleep_interruptible - delay execution for a specified number
of milliseconds

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 void OSSL_sleep(uint64_t millis);
 uint64_t OSSL_sleep_interruptible(uint64_t millis);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_sleep() is a convenience function to delay execution of the calling
thread for (at least) I<millis> milliseconds.  The delay is not guaranteed;
it may be affected by system activity, by the time spent processing the call,
limitation on the underlying system call parameter size or by system timer
granularity.

OSSL_sleep_interruptible() is a variant of the sleep function that may return
early if interrupted (by a signal on POSIX systems, for example).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_sleep() does not return any value.

OSSL_sleep_interruptible() returns the number of milliseconds left at the end
of the call (zero if the delay has fully lapsed, nonzero if the underlying
system-specific sleep call has interrupted prematurely).

=head1 HISTORY

OSSL_sleep() was added in OpenSSL 3.2;  OSSL_sleep_interruptible() was added
in OpenSSL 4.0.

Before OpenSSL 3.6, there were system-specific limitations on the maximum
duration of the sleep:  on Windows, the maximum amount of time it will sleep
was 49 days, and on systems where the regular sleep(3) is used as the underlying
system call the maximum sleep time was about 136 years.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022-2023 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
