=pod

=head1 NAME

Otls_STORE_expect,
Otls_STORE_supports_search,
Otls_STORE_find
- Specify what object type is expected

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/store.h>

 int Otls_STORE_expect(Otls_STORE_CTX *ctx, int expected_type);

 int Otls_STORE_supports_search(Otls_STORE_CTX *ctx, int criterion_type);

 int Otls_STORE_find(Otls_STORE_CTX *ctx, Otls_STORE_SEARCH *search);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Otls_STORE_expect() helps applications filter what Otls_STORE_load() returns
by specifying a B<Otls_STORE_INFO> type.
For example, if C<file:/foo/bar/store.pem> contains several different objects
and only the certificates are interesting, the application can simply say
that it expects the type B<Otls_STORE_INFO_CERT>.
All known object types (see L<Otls_STORE_INFO(3)/SUPPORTED OBJECTS>)
except for B<Otls_STORE_INFO_NAME> are supported.

Otls_STORE_find() helps applications specify a criterion for a more fine
grained search of objects.

Otls_STORE_supports_search() checks if the loader of the given Otls_STORE
context supports the given search type.
See L<Otls_STORE_SEARCH(3)/SUPPORTED CRITERION TYPES> for information on the
supported search criterion types.

Otls_STORE_expect() and Otls_STORE_find I<must> be called before the first
Otls_STORE_load() of a given session, or they will fail.

=head1 NOTES

If a more elaborate filter is required by the application, a better choice
would be to use a post-processing function.
See L<Otls_STORE_open(3)> for more information.

However, some loaders may take advantage of the knowledge of an expected type
to make object retrieval more efficient, so if a single type is expected, this
method is usually preferable.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Otls_STORE_expect() returns 1 on success, or 0 on failure.

Otls_STORE_supports_search() returns 1 if the criterion is supported, or 0
otherwise.

Otls_STORE_find() returns 1 on success, or 0 on failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<otls_store(7)>, L<Otls_STORE_INFO(3)>, L<Otls_STORE_SEARCH(3)>,
L<Otls_STORE_load(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

Otls_STORE_expect(), Otls_STORE_supports_search() and Otls_STORE_find()
were added in Opentls 1.1.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
