=pod

=head1 NAME

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_PKIPublicationInfo_push0_SinglePubInfo,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set0_SinglePubInfo,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set_PKIPublicationInfo_action,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey,
Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID,
Otls_CRMF_CERTID_gen
- functions setting CRMF Registration Controls

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/crmf.h>

 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken(Otls_CRMF_MSG *msg,
                                         const ASN1_UTF8STRING *tok);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator(Otls_CRMF_MSG *msg,
                                              const ASN1_UTF8STRING *auth);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_PKIPublicationInfo_push0_SinglePubInfo(
                                  Otls_CRMF_PKIPUBLICATIONINFO *pi,
                                  Otls_CRMF_SINGLEPUBINFO *spi);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set0_SinglePubInfo(Otls_CRMF_SINGLEPUBINFO *spi,
                                      int method, GENERAL_NAME *nm);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set_PKIPublicationInfo_action(
                                  Otls_CRMF_PKIPUBLICATIONINFO *pi, int action);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo(Otls_CRMF_MSG *msg,
                                        const Otls_CRMF_PKIPUBLICATIONINFO *pi);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey(Otls_CRMF_MSG *msg,
                                                const X509_PUBKEY *pubkey);
 int Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID(Otls_CRMF_MSG *msg,
                                          const Otls_CRMF_CERTID *cid);
 Otls_CRMF_CERTID *Otls_CRMF_CERTID_gen(const X509_NAME *issuer,
                                        const ASN1_INTEGER *serial);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken() sets the regToken control in the given
B<msg> copying the given B<tok> as value. See RFC 4211, section 6.1.

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator() sets the authenticator control in
the given B<msg> copying the given B<auth> as value. See RFC 4211, section 6.2.

Otls_CRMF_MSG_PKIPublicationInfo_push0_SinglePubInfo() pushes the given B<spi>
to B<si>. Consumes the B<spi> pointer.

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set0_SinglePubInfo() sets in the given SinglePubInfo B<spi>
the B<method> and publication location, in the form of a GeneralName, B<nm>.
The publication location is optional, and therefore B<nm> may be NULL.
The function consumes the B<nm> pointer if present.
Available methods are:
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_METHOD_DONTCARE 0
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_METHOD_X500     1
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_METHOD_WEB      2
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_METHOD_LDAP     3

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set_PKIPublicationInfo_action() sets the action in the given B<pi>
using the given B<action> as value. See RFC 4211, section 6.3.
Available actions are:
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_ACTION_DONTPUBLISH   0
 # define Otls_CRMF_PUB_ACTION_PLEASEPUBLISH 1

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo() sets the pkiPublicationInfo
control in the given B<msg> copying the given B<tok> as value. See RFC 4211,
section 6.3.

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey() sets the protocolEncrKey control in
the given B<msg> copying the given B<pubkey> as value. See RFC 4211 section 6.6.

Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID() sets the oldCertID control in the given
B<msg> copying the given B<cid> as value. See RFC 4211, section 6.5.

Otls_CRMF_CERTID_gen produces an Otls_CRMF_CERTID_gen structure copying the
given B<issuer> name and B<serial> number.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Otls_CRMF_CERTID_gen returns a pointer to the resulting structure
or NULL on error.

All other functions return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 NOTES

A function Otls_CRMF_MSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiArchiveOptions() for setting an
Archive Options Control is not yet implemented due to missing features to
create the needed Otls_CRMF_PKIARCHIVEOPTINS content.

=head1 SEE ALSO

RFC 4211

=head1 HISTORY

The Opentls CRMF support was added in Opentls 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
