=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_set,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_type,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_value,
OSSL_CMP_ITAV_stack_item_push0
- OSSL_CMP_ITAV utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>
  void OSSL_CMP_ITAV_set(OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav,
                         const ASN1_OBJECT *type,
                         const ASN1_TYPE *value);
  ASN1_OBJECT *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_type(OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav);
  ASN1_TYPE *OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_value(OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav);

  int OSSL_CMP_ITAV_stack_item_push0(STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ITAV) **itav_sk_p,
                                     const OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_set() sets the B<itav> with an infoType of B<type> and an
infoValue of B<value>. This function uses the pointers B<type> and B<value>
internally, so they must B<not> be freed up after the call.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_type() returns a direct pointer to the infoType in the
B<itav>.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_get0_value() returns a direct pointer to the infoValue in
the B<itav> as generic ASN1_TYPE*.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_stack_item_push0() pushes B<itav> to the stack pointed to
by B<*itav_sk_p>. It creates a new stack if B<*itav_sk_p> points to NULL.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_set() does not return a value.

OSSL_CMP_ITAV_stack_item_push0() returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

The following code creates and sets a structure representing a generic
InfoTypeAndValue sequence, using an OID created from text as type, and an
integer as value. Afterwards, it is pushed to the OSSL_CMP_CTX to be later
included in the requests' PKIHeader's genInfo field.


    ASN1_OBJECT *type = OBJ_txt2obj("1.2.3.4.5", 1);

    ASN1_INTEGER *asn1int = ASN1_INTEGER_new();
    ASN1_INTEGER_set(asn1int, 12345);

    ASN1_TYPE *val = ASN1_TYPE_new();
    ASN1_TYPE_set(val, V_ASN1_INTEGER, asn1int);

    OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav = OSSL_CMP_ITAV_new();
    OSSL_CMP_ITAV_set(itav, type, val);

    OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx = OSSL_CMP_CTX_new();
    OSSL_CMP_CTX_geninfo_itav_push0(ctx, itav);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_create(3)>, L<ASN1_TYPE_set(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
