=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CRAU_enter, OSSL_CRAU_data, OSSL_CRAU_leave
- crypto-auditing context and event management functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crau.h>

 void OSSL_CRAU_enter(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const char *name,
                      const OSSL_PARAM params[]);

 void OSSL_CRAU_data(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const OSSL_PARAM params[]);

 void OSSL_CRAU_leave(OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions provide support for instrumenting OpenSSL library operations
with USDT (Userland Statically Defined Tracing) probes compatible with
L<crypto-auditing|https://github.com/latchset/crypto-auditing/>.
They enable tracing of cryptographically-relevant events through eBPF
for security auditing and observability purposes.

OSSL_CRAU_enter() creates a new hierarchical crypto-auditing context with
the given I<name> and optional I<params>. The context is associated with the
current thread and maintains a parent-child relationship with any existing
context. The I<name> parameter identifies the operation being traced (e.g.,
"pk::sign", "pk::encrypt", etc.). The I<params> array contains key-value pairs
representing event attributes, which must be terminated with OSSL_PARAM_END.

When USDT support is enabled, this function emits a C<crypto_auditing::new_context_with_data>
probe that includes:

=over 4

=item *

A unique context identifier derived from the current thread ID and virtual
memory address

=item *

The parent context identifier for hierarchical event tracking

=item *

An array of event data structures containing the provided parameters plus
the context name

=back

OSSL_CRAU_data() emits additional event data for the current crypto-auditing
context. This function allows instrumenting code to report intermediate or
supplementary information during an operation without creating a new context.
The I<params> array contains key-value pairs to be logged, terminated with
OSSL_PARAM_END.

When USDT support is enabled, this function emits a C<crypto_auditing::data>
probe associated with the current context.

OSSL_CRAU_leave() exits the current crypto-auditing context, restoring the
parent context. This function should be called to properly close a context
opened with OSSL_CRAU_enter(). Contexts must be closed in a properly nested
manner (last in, first out order).

=head1 NOTES

These functions are designed to have minimal performance impact when
USDT support is enabled at compile time but no tracing happening at run
time. In this configuration, the USDT probes compile to a NOP
instruction.

The I<params> arrays passed to OSSL_CRAU_enter() and OSSL_CRAU_data() support
the following OSSL_PARAM data types:

=over 4

=item B<OSSL_PARAM_INTEGER>

Signed integer values, extracted using OSSL_PARAM_get_int(). The value is
encoded as a machine word in the trace event.

=item B<OSSL_PARAM_UNSIGNED_INTEGER>

Unsigned integer values up to INT_MAX, extracted using OSSL_PARAM_get_uint().
The value is encoded as a machine word in the trace event.

=item B<OSSL_PARAM_UTF8_STRING>

NUL-terminated UTF-8 strings. The string pointer is passed directly to the
trace event.

=item B<OSSL_PARAM_OCTET_STRING>

Binary data with an explicit size. Both the data pointer and size are
included in the trace event.

=back

A maximum of 15 parameters can be provided to OSSL_CRAU_enter() (one slot
is reserved for the context name). OSSL_CRAU_data() supports up to 16
parameters.

Context management is thread-local. Each thread maintains its own context
stack, and contexts are automatically associated with the calling thread's ID.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions do not return a value.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Instrumenting a public key signing operation with crypto-auditing:

 OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx = OSSL_LIB_CTX_get0_global_default();
 OSSL_PARAM params[3];

 params[0] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_utf8_string("pk::algorithm", "RSA-PSS", 0);
 params[1] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_uint("pk::bits", 2048);
 params[2] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_end();

 OSSL_CRAU_enter(libctx, "pk::sign", params);

 /* Perform the signing operation */
 /* ... */

 /* Optionally emit additional data during the operation */
 params[0] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_utf8_string("pk::hash", "SHA-256", 0);
 params[1] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_end();
 OSSL_CRAU_data(libctx, params);

 /* ... complete the operation ... */

 OSSL_CRAU_leave(libctx);

Nesting contexts for hierarchical tracing:

 OSSL_PARAM params[3];

 params[0] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_utf8_string("tls::role", "server", 0);
 params[1] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_end();
 OSSL_CRAU_enter(libctx, "tls::handshake", params);

 /* During handshake, trace key exchange */
 params[0] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_uint("tls::group", 4588); /* X25519MLKEM768 */
 params[1] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_end();
 OSSL_CRAU_enter(libctx, "tls::key_exchange", params);

 /* ... key exchange ... */

 OSSL_CRAU_leave(libctx);  /* Leave key exchange context */

 /* ... continue handshake ... */

 OSSL_CRAU_leave(libctx);  /* Leave handshake context */

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_LIB_CTX(3)>,
L<OSSL_PARAM(3)>,
L<OSSL_PARAM_construct_utf8_string(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 4.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
