=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_print_attribute_value
- Print an X.500 directory attribute value

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 int OSSL_print_attribute_value(BIO *out, int obj_nid, const ASN1_TYPE *av, int indent);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<OSSL_print_attribute_value> prints an X.500 directory value, which is an
ASN.1 value and an associated attribute type that informs its interpretation,
syntax, display characteristics, comparison, sorting, and substring searching
behaviors, among other things. This attribute type is identified by an ASN.1
object identifier.

X.500 directory values are used in the relative distinguished names in a
distinguished name, as seen in the C<subject> and C<issuer> fields of an X.509
public key certificate. They also appear in the attributes of an X.509
attribute certificate, as well as in the subjectDirectoryAttributes or
associatedInformation X.509v3 extensions.

This function takes a C<BIO> pointer for printing the output, the NID of the
attribute type object identifier, the ASN.1 value itself, and the level of
desired indentation in terms of the number of spaces.

This function generally prints values in such a way as to keep them on a single
line, but this is not always the case. Unrecognized attribute types whose syntax
is a C<SET> or C<SEQUENCE> will be printed on multiple lines, for instance. Not
all ASN.1 syntaxes are currently supported, and there is no guarantee for what
printed values will look like in future versions.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Returns 1 if it succeeds in printing, and 0 if it failed.

=head1 HISTORY

OSSL_print_attribute_value() was added in OpenSSL 3.4.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
