=pod

=head1 NAME

PEM_X509_INFO_read_bio_with_libctx, PEM_X509_INFO_read_with_libctx
- read a PEM-encoded data structure from a bio into one or more B<X509_INFO>
object's

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/pem.h>

 STACK_OF(X509_INFO) *PEM_X509_INFO_read_with_libctx(FILE *fp,
                                                     STACK_OF(X509_INFO) *sk,
                                                     pem_password_cb *cb,
                                                     void *u,
                                                     OPENSSL_CTX *libctx,
                                                     const char *propq);

 STACK_OF(X509_INFO) *PEM_X509_INFO_read_bio_with_libctx(BIO *bio,
                                                         STACK_OF(X509_INFO) *sk,
                                                         pem_password_cb *cb,
                                                         void *u,
                                                         OPENSSL_CTX *libctx,
                                                         const char *propq);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The loaded B<X509_INFO> object's can contain a CRL, a certificate and a
corresponding private key.

PEM_X509_INFO_read_with_libctx() loads the B<X509_INFO> objects from a file I<fp>.
The library context I<libctx> and property query <propq> are used for fetching
algorithms from providers.

PEM_X509_INFO_read_bio_with_libctx loads the B<X509_INFO> objects using a bio
I<bp>. The library context I<libctx> and property query <propq> are used for
fetching algorithms from providers.


=head1 RETURN VALUES

PEM_X509_INFO_read_with_libctx() and PEM_X509_INFO_read_bio_with_libctx() return
a stack of B<X509_INFO> objects or NULL on failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PEM_read_bio_ex(3)>,
L<passphrase-encoding(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

The functions PEM_X509_INFO_read_with_libctx() and
PEM_X509_INFO_read_bio_with_libctx() were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
