=pod

=head1 NAME

PKCS12_parse_ex, PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_new, PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_free,
PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_pkey, PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert,
PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca, PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_skey,
PKCS12_parse
- parse a PKCS#12 structure

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/pkcs12.h>

 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_new(void);
 void PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_free(PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx);
 void PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_pkey(PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx, EVP_PKEY **pkey);
 void PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert(PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx, X509 **cert);
 void PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca(PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx, STACK_OF(X509) **ca);
 void PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_skey(PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx, EVP_SKEY **skey);

 int PKCS12_parse_ex(PKCS12 *p12, const char *pass, PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx,
                     OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const char *propq);

Deprecated since OpenSSL 4.1:

 int PKCS12_parse(PKCS12 *p12, const char *pass, EVP_PKEY **pkey, X509 **cert,
                  STACK_OF(X509) **ca);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PKCS12_parse_ex() parses a PKCS12 structure, extracting the components
specified by the parse context B<ctx>.

B<p12> is the B<PKCS12> structure to parse. B<pass> is the passphrase to use.
B<ctx> is a B<PKCS12_PARSE_CTX> that specifies which components to extract.
B<libctx> and B<propq> specify the library context and property query string
for algorithm lookups.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_new() allocates a new parse context. All output pointers
are initially NULL, meaning no components will be extracted until configured
via the setter functions.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_free() frees the parse context. It does not free any
extracted objects.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_pkey() configures the context to extract the private key
into B<*pkey>.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert() configures the context to extract the matching
certificate into B<*cert>.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca() configures the context to extract additional
certificates into B<*ca>.

PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_skey() configures the context to extract a symmetric
secret key into B<*skey>. This is used for PKCS#12 files containing
SecretBag structures, such as those created by Java's keytool utility.

PKCS12_parse() is a deprecated wrapper around PKCS12_parse_ex() that
extracts the private key, certificate, and CA certificates. It does not
support symmetric key extraction or custom library contexts.

=head1 NOTES

Each output pointer configured via the setter functions can be left
unconfigured (NULL) to skip extraction of that component.

If B<PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert> or B<PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca> is called,
the corresponding pointer variables are initialized on success.
If B<ca> is configured and B<*ca> is NULL, a new STACK will be allocated.
If B<ca> is configured and B<*ca> is a valid STACK,
then additional certificates are appended in the given order to B<*ca>.

The B<friendlyName> and B<localKeyID> attributes (if present) on each
certificate will be stored in the B<alias> and B<keyid> attributes of the
B<X509> structure.

The parameter B<pass> is interpreted as a string in the UTF-8 encoding. If it
is not valid UTF-8, then it is assumed to be ISO8859-1 instead.

In particular, this means that passwords in the locale character set
(or code page on Windows) must potentially be converted to UTF-8 before
use. This may include passwords from local text files, or input from
the terminal or command line. Refer to the documentation of
L<UI_OpenSSL(3)>, for example.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

PKCS12_parse_ex() and PKCS12_parse() return 1 for success and zero if an
error occurred.

The error can be obtained from L<ERR_get_error(3)>

=head1 EXAMPLES

Extract all components including symmetric keys from a PKCS#12 file:

 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX *ctx = PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_new();
 EVP_PKEY *pkey = NULL;
 X509 *cert = NULL;
 STACK_OF(X509) *ca = NULL;
 EVP_SKEY *skey = NULL;

 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_pkey(ctx, &pkey);
 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert(ctx, &cert);
 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca(ctx, &ca);
 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_skey(ctx, &skey);

 if (PKCS12_parse_ex(p12, password, ctx, NULL, NULL)) {
     /* use pkey, cert, ca, skey */
 }

 EVP_PKEY_free(pkey);
 X509_free(cert);
 OSSL_STACK_OF_X509_free(ca);
 EVP_SKEY_free(skey);
 PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_free(ctx);

=head1 BUGS

Only a single private key and corresponding certificate is returned by this
function. More complex PKCS#12 files with multiple private keys will only
return the first match.

Only B<friendlyName> and B<localKeyID> attributes are currently stored in
certificates. Other attributes are discarded.

Attributes currently cannot be stored in the private key B<EVP_PKEY> structure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_PKCS12(3)>,
L<passphrase-encoding(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

PKCS12_parse_ex(), PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_new(), PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_free(),
PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_pkey(), PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_cert(),
PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_ca(), and PKCS12_PARSE_CTX_set_skey()
were added in OpenSSL 4.1.

PKCS12_parse() was deprecated in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
