=pod

=head1 NAME

PKCS12_decrypt_secretbag - PKCS12 secret bag decrypt function

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/pkcs12.h>

 PKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO *PKCS12_decrypt_secretbag(const PKCS12_SAFEBAG *bag,
                                               const char *pass, int passlen,
                                               OSSL_LIB_CTX *ctx,
                                               const char *propq);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PKCS12_decrypt_secretbag() decrypts a PKCS#12 B<secretBag> that contains an
encrypted PKCS#8 structure (B<NID_pkcs8ShroudedKeyBag> as the bag type within
B<NID_secretBag>). This is the format used by Java's keytool to store symmetric
secret keys in PKCS#12 files.

I<bag> is the B<PKCS12_SAFEBAG> to decrypt. I<pass> is the passphrase of
length I<passlen>. I<ctx> and I<propq> specify the library context and property
query string for algorithm lookups.

The returned B<PKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO> can be passed to
L<PKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO_get1_skey(3)> to obtain an B<EVP_SKEY> symmetric key object.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

PKCS12_decrypt_secretbag() returns a B<PKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO> on success or
NULL on error. The caller must free the returned object with
PKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO_free().

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PKCS12_SAFEBAG_get1_cert(3)>,
L<PKCS12_parse(3)>,
L<PKCS8_decrypt_ex(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

PKCS12_decrypt_secretbag() was added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
