=pod

=head1 NAME

RAND_bytes, RAND_priv_bytes, RAND_pseudo_bytes - generate random data

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/rand.h>

 int RAND_bytes(unsigned char *buf, int num);
 int RAND_priv_bytes(unsigned char *buf, int num);

Deprecated:

 #if OPENSSL_API_COMPAT < 0x10100000L
 int RAND_pseudo_bytes(unsigned char *buf, int num);
 #endif

=head1 DESCRIPTION

RAND_bytes() puts B<num> cryptographically strong pseudo-random bytes
into B<buf>. An error occurs if the PRNG has not been seeded with
enough randomness to ensure an unpredictable byte sequence.

RAND_priv_bytes() has the same semantics as RAND_bytes().  It is intended to
be used for generating long-term private keys. If using the default
RAND_METHOD, this function uses a separate instance of the PRNG so that
a compromise of the global generator will not affect such key generation.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

RAND_bytes() nad RAND_priv_bytes()
return 1 on success, -1 if not supported by the current
RAND method, or 0 on other failure. The error code can be
obtained by L<ERR_get_error(3)>.

=head1 HISTORY

RAND_pseudo_bytes() was deprecated in OpenSSL 1.1.0; use RAND_bytes() instead.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<RAND_bytes(3)>, L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<RAND_add(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
