=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length, SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length, SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length - enable Maximum Fragment Length Negotiation extension

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 long SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length(SSL_CTX *ctx, long mode);
 long SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length(SSL *ssl, long mode);

 long SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length(SSL *ssl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length() sets the default maximum fragment
length negotiation mode via value B<mode> to B<ctx>.
This setting affects only SSL instances created after this function is called.

SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length() sets the maximum fragment length
negotiation mode via value B<mode> to B<ssl>.
This setting affects only SSL sessions created after this function is called.

SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length() gets the maximum fragment length
negotiated in session B<ssl>.

=head1 NOTES

This extension is optional on server side. If server does not support this
extension SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length() will return
TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_DISABLED.

The following modes are available:

=over 4

=item TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_DISABLED

Disables Maximum Fragment Length Negotiation (default).

=item TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_2_TO_9

Sets Maximum Fragment Length to 512.

=item TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_2_TO_10

Sets Maximum Fragment Length to 1024.

=item TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_2_TO_11

Sets Maximum Fragment Length to 2048.

=item TLSEXT_max_fragment_length_2_TO_12

Sets Maximum Fragment Length to 4096.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length() and SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length() return 0.

SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length() returns Maximum Fragment Length that was
negotiated for connection B<ssl>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length(3)>, L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length(3)>, L<SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length(), SSL_set_tlsext_max_fragment_length() and SSL_get_tlsext_max_fragment_length() have been added in OpenSSL 1.1.1.

=cut
