=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_SESSION_get0_cipher,
tls_SESSION_set_cipher
- set and retrieve the tls cipher associated with a session

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 const tls_CIPHER *tls_SESSION_get0_cipher(const tls_SESSION *s);
 int tls_SESSION_set_cipher(tls_SESSION *s, const tls_CIPHER *cipher);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_SESSION_get0_cipher() retrieves the cipher that was used by the
connection when the session was created, or NULL if it cannot be determined.

The value returned is a pointer to an object maintained within B<s> and
should not be released.

tls_SESSION_set_cipher() can be used to set the ciphersuite associated with the
tls_SESSION B<s> to B<cipher>. For example, this could be used to set up a
session based PSK (see L<tls_CTX_set_psk_use_session_callback(3)>).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_SESSION_get0_cipher() returns the tls_CIPHER associated with the tls_SESSION
or NULL if it cannot be determined.

tls_SESSION_set_cipher() returns 1 on success or 0 on failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<d2i_tls_SESSION(3)>,
L<tls_SESSION_get_time(3)>,
L<tls_SESSION_get0_hostname(3)>,
L<tls_SESSION_free(3)>,
L<tls_CTX_set_psk_use_session_callback(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The tls_SESSION_get0_cipher() function was added in Opentls 1.1.0.
The tls_SESSION_set_cipher() function was added in Opentls 1.1.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2017 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
