=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_in_before,
tls_in_init,
tls_is_init_finished,
tls_in_connect_init,
tls_in_accept_init,
tls_get_state
- retrieve information about the handshake state machine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int tls_in_init(const tls *s);
 int tls_in_before(const tls *s);
 int tls_is_init_finished(const tls *s);

 int tls_in_connect_init(tls *s);
 int tls_in_accept_init(tls *s);

 Otls_HANDSHAKE_STATE tls_get_state(const tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_in_init() returns 1 if the tls/TLS state machine is currently processing or
awaiting handshake messages, or 0 otherwise.

tls_in_before() returns 1 if no tls/TLS handshake has yet been initiated, or 0
otherwise.

tls_is_init_finished() returns 1 if the tls/TLS connection is in a state where
fully protected application data can be transferred or 0 otherwise.

Note that in some circumstances (such as when early data is being transferred)
tls_in_init(), tls_in_before() and tls_is_init_finished() can all return 0.

tls_in_connect_init() returns 1 if B<s> is acting as a client and tls_in_init()
would return 1, or 0 otherwise.

tls_in_accept_init() returns 1 if B<s> is acting as a server and tls_in_init()
would return 1, or 0 otherwise.

tls_in_connect_init() and tls_in_accept_init() are implemented as macros.

tls_get_state() returns a value indicating the current state of the handshake
state machine. Otls_HANDSHAKE_STATE is an enumerated type where each value
indicates a discrete state machine state. Note that future versions of Opentls
may define more states so applications should expect to receive unrecognised
state values. The naming format is made up of a number of elements as follows:

B<protocol>_ST_B<role>_B<message>

B<protocol> is one of TLS or DTLS. DTLS is used where a state is specific to the
DTLS protocol. Otherwise TLS is used.

B<role> is one of CR, CW, SR or SW to indicate "client reading",
"client writing", "server reading" or "server writing" respectively.

B<message> is the name of a handshake message that is being or has been sent, or
is being or has been processed.

Additionally there are some special states that do not conform to the above
format. These are:

=over 4

=item TLS_ST_BEFORE

No handshake messages have yet been been sent or received.

=item TLS_ST_OK

Handshake message sending/processing has completed.

=item TLS_ST_EARLY_DATA

Early data is being processed

=item TLS_ST_PENDING_EARLY_DATA_END

Awaiting the end of early data processing

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_in_init(), tls_in_before(), tls_is_init_finished(), tls_in_connect_init()
and tls_in_accept_init() return values as indicated above.

tls_get_state() returns the current handshake state.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_read_early_data(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
