=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_set_default_ctlog_list_file, tls_CTX_set_ctlog_list_file -
load a Certificate Transparency log list from a file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int tls_CTX_set_default_ctlog_list_file(tls_CTX *ctx);
 int tls_CTX_set_ctlog_list_file(tls_CTX *ctx, const char *path);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_set_default_ctlog_list_file() loads a list of Certificate Transparency
(CT) logs from the default file location, "ct_log_list.cnf", found in the
directory where Opentls is installed.

tls_CTX_set_ctlog_list_file() loads a list of CT logs from a specific path.
See L<CTLOG_STORE_new(3)> for the file format.

=head1 NOTES

These functions will not clear the existing CT log list - it will be appended
to. To replace the existing list, use L<tls_CTX_set0_ctlog_store(3)> first.

If an error occurs whilst parsing a particular log entry in the file, that log
entry will be skipped.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CTX_set_default_ctlog_list_file() and tls_CTX_set_ctlog_list_file()
return 1 if the log list is successfully loaded, and 0 if an error occurs. In
the case of an error, the log list may have been partially loaded.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_CTX_set_ct_validation_callback(3)>,
L<CTLOG_STORE_new(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
