=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_session_id_collision_cb, SSL_set_session_id_collision_cb,
GEN_SESSION_COLLISION_CB
- set an optional callback to detect external session ID collisions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 typedef int (*GEN_SESSION_COLLISION_CB)(SSL *ssl, const unsigned char *id,
                                         unsigned int id_len);

 int SSL_CTX_set_session_id_collision_cb(SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                         GEN_SESSION_COLLISION_CB cb);
 int SSL_set_session_id_collision_cb(SSL *ssl,
                                     GEN_SESSION_COLLISION_CB cb);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_CTX_set_session_id_collision_cb() sets an optional callback used when a
server generates a new session ID for B<ctx>.

SSL_set_session_id_collision_cb() sets an optional callback used when a
server generates a new session ID for B<ssl>. If both SSL and SSL_CTX have a
callback, the SSL callback is preferred.

The callback is used only for collision checks during session ID generation.
It is not used for session lookup or resumption and does not replace
get_session_cb().
The callback MUST NOT perform session resumption or modify connection state.
It should only perform an existence check.

The callback receives the candidate session ID (B<id>, B<id_len>) and should
return one of the following values:

=over 4

=item 1

A collision exists in the external cache with a resumable session.

=item 0

No collision exists. This includes matches that are known to be
non-resumable.

=item E<lt>0

Indeterminate. The callback cannot determine whether a collision exists.
OpenSSL treats this as no external collision and falls back to internal-cache
collision checks only.

=back

If no callback is set, OpenSSL behaves as before and checks only the internal
session cache for collisions.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_session_id_collision_cb() and SSL_set_session_id_collision_cb()
return 1 on success, or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_generate_session_id(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_sess_set_get_cb(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
