=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_set_connect_state, tls_set_accept_state, tls_is_server
- functions for manipulating and examining the client or server mode of an tls object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 void tls_set_connect_state(tls *tls);

 void tls_set_accept_state(tls *tls);

 int tls_is_server(const tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_set_connect_state() sets B<tls> to work in client mode.

tls_set_accept_state() sets B<tls> to work in server mode.

tls_is_server() checks if B<tls> is working in server mode.

=head1 NOTES

When the tls_CTX object was created with L<tls_CTX_new(3)>,
it was either assigned a dedicated client method, a dedicated server
method, or a generic method, that can be used for both client and
server connections. (The method might have been changed with
L<tls_CTX_set_tls_version(3)> or
L<tls_set_tls_method(3)>.)

When beginning a new handshake, the tls engine must know whether it must
call the connect (client) or accept (server) routines. Even though it may
be clear from the method chosen, whether client or server mode was
requested, the handshake routines must be explicitly set.

When using the L<tls_connect(3)> or
L<tls_accept(3)> routines, the correct handshake
routines are automatically set. When performing a transparent negotiation
using L<tls_write_ex(3)>, L<tls_write(3)>, L<tls_read_ex(3)>, or L<tls_read(3)>,
the handshake routines must be explicitly set in advance using either
tls_set_connect_state() or tls_set_accept_state().

If tls_is_server() is called before tls_set_connect_state() or
tls_set_accept_state() is called (either automatically or explicitly),
the result depends on what method was used when tls_CTX was created with
L<tls_CTX_new(3)>. If a generic method or a dedicated server method was
passed to L<tls_CTX_new(3)>, tls_is_server() returns 1; otherwise, it returns 0.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_set_connect_state() and tls_set_accept_state() do not return diagnostic
information.

tls_is_server() returns 1 if B<tls> is working in server mode or 0 for client mode.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_new(3)>, L<tls_CTX_new(3)>,
L<tls_connect(3)>, L<tls_accept(3)>,
L<tls_write_ex(3)>, L<tls_write(3)>, L<tls_read_ex(3)>, L<tls_read(3)>,
L<tls_do_handshake(3)>,
L<tls_CTX_set_tls_version(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2017 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
