=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_get_certificate, SSL_get_privatekey - retrieve TLS/SSL certificate and
private key

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 X509 *SSL_get_certificate(const SSL *s);
 EVP_PKEY *SSL_get_privatekey(const SSL *s);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_get_certificate() returns a pointer to a B<X509> object representing a
certificate used as the local peer's identity.

Multiple certificates can be configured; for example, a server might have both
RSA and ECDSA certificates. The certificate which is returned by
SSL_get_certificate() is determined as follows:

=item

If it is called before the handshake has completed, it returns the most recently
added certificate, or NULL if no certificate has been added.

=item

After the handshake has completed, it returns the certificate which was selected
during the handshake, or NULL if no certificate was selected (for example, on a
client where no client certificate is in use).

=back

A specific use for SSL_get_certificate() is inside a callback set via a call to
L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_status_cb(3)>, where it can be used to examine a server's
certificate, for example for the purpose of identifying a certificate's OCSP
responder URL so that an OCSP response can be obtained.

SSL_get_privatekey() returns a pointer to the B<EVP_PKEY> object corresponding
to the certificate returned by SSL_get_certificate(), if any.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions return pointers to their respective objects, or NULL if no such
object is available.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>, L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_status_cb(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

