=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_set_SSL_CTX - change the SSL_CTX an SSL object is bound to

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 SSL_CTX *SSL_set_SSL_CTX(SSL *ssl, SSL_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_set_SSL_CTX() rebinds the B<SSL> object I<ssl> to the B<SSL_CTX>
object I<ctx>.  This is intended primarily for servers that want to
present a different set of X.509 credentials based on information
learned partway through the ClientHello, such as the Server Name
Indication (SNI) extension.

I<ssl> must reference a TLS or DTLS connection; QUIC B<SSL> objects are
not supported and the call returns NULL.

If I<ctx> is NULL, the session B<SSL_CTX> (as recorded internally by
I<ssl>) is used in its place; passing NULL is rarely useful in
application code.

If I<ctx> is identical to the B<SSL_CTX> already bound to I<ssl>, no
work is done and the existing context is returned.

When the new context differs from the current one, SSL_set_SSL_CTX():

=over 4

=item *

duplicates the certificate state (leaf certificates, private keys, and
associated chains) from I<ctx> and replaces the per-connection
certificate state on I<ssl> with the copy.

=item *

copies the I<ctx>'s custom-extension flags onto I<ssl>.

=item *

inherits the session ID context from I<ctx> if and only if the current
session ID context on I<ssl> equals the one inherited from the
previously bound B<SSL_CTX> (i.e., the application has not overridden
it via L<SSL_set_session_id_context(3)>).

=item *

increments the reference count of I<ctx> and decrements the reference
count of the previously bound context.

=back

No other state is updated.

SSL_set_SSL_CTX() has historically been called from a servername
callback installed with L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback(3)>,
or from a ClientHello callback installed with
L<SSL_CTX_set_client_hello_cb(3)>, after the application has identified
the desired credential set.  For new code, see L</NOTES> below for a
simpler and safer approach.

=head1 CAVEATS

Beyond the items listed under L</DESCRIPTION>, SSL_set_SSL_CTX() does
B<not> propagate any further configuration from the new B<SSL_CTX>
onto the B<SSL> object.  Most state that a B<SSL> inherits at
L<SSL_new(3)> time has already been copied into the B<SSL>, and the
handshake code consults that copy, not the B<SSL_CTX>.  The state that
is B<not> updated by SSL_set_SSL_CTX() includes, among others:

=over 4

=item *

the verify mode (L<SSL_set_verify(3)>) and verify callback;

=item *

the B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> attached to the B<SSL> (verification depth,
hostflags, expected hostname/IP/email, trust purpose, time, CRL
checking flags, etc.);

=item *

protocol-level options set via L<SSL_set_options(3)> (the B<SSL_OP_*>
flags, including those affecting renegotiation, anti-replay, ticket
behavior, and so on);

=item *

post-handshake client authentication state
(L<SSL_set_post_handshake_auth(3)>);

=item *

the TLS 1.2 cipher list and the TLS 1.3 ciphersuites
(L<SSL_set_cipher_list(3)>, L<SSL_set_ciphersuites(3)>);

=item *

the minimum and maximum protocol versions
(L<SSL_set_min_proto_version(3)>, L<SSL_set_max_proto_version(3)>);

=item *

ALPN configuration (L<SSL_set_alpn_protos(3)>) and other
per-connection extension data;

=item *

session cache mode and session-ticket configuration;

=item *

most callbacks installed via SSL_CTX_set_*() that are copied into the
B<SSL> at L<SSL_new(3)> time.

=back

This list is not exhaustive.  An application that wants any of the
above to take values from the new B<SSL_CTX> for the remainder of the
handshake must apply them explicitly to the B<SSL> after the call.

In particular, SSL_set_SSL_CTX() does B<not> by itself implement any
form of "per-SNI security policy".  An application that relies on the
new B<SSL_CTX>'s verify mode, B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM>, or B<SSL_OP_*>
flags taking effect after the call B<must> set them on the B<SSL>
itself, using the corresponding per-SSL setters.

SSL_set_SSL_CTX() also does B<not> retroactively re-derive any
handshake state that was computed before the call.  In TLS 1.3, where
session resumption happens early in ClientHello processing, the
servername callback runs after the resumption decision; calling
SSL_set_SSL_CTX() there does not affect resumption for the current
handshake.  Applications that need to influence the resumption decision
should instead use a ClientHello callback (see
L<SSL_CTX_set_client_hello_cb(3)>).

=head1 NOTES

The recommended approach for SNI-based credential selection does not
use SSL_set_SSL_CTX() at all.  Instead, the servername callback only
records the requested name, and a certificate callback installed with
L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)> installs the per-connection certificate, private
key, and chain via L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)>.  Because no second
B<SSL_CTX> is involved, none of the staleness pitfalls described above
arise: there is no "other context" whose verify mode, parameters, or
options could fail to be applied.  See
L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback(3)> for a worked example.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

On success SSL_set_SSL_CTX() returns the (now bound) B<SSL_CTX>
pointer.  On failure (for example, an out-of-memory condition while
duplicating the certificate state, or when called on an unsupported
B<SSL> object such as a QUIC connection) it returns NULL.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>,
L<SSL_get_SSL_CTX(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_client_hello_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)>,
L<SSL_set_session_id_context(3)>,
L<SSL_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

SSL_set_SSL_CTX() has been available since the introduction of TLS SNI
support in OpenSSL 0.9.8f.  This man page was added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
