=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CONF_CTX_set1_prefix - Set configuration context command prefix

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 unsigned int tls_CONF_CTX_set1_prefix(tls_CONF_CTX *cctx, const char *prefix);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The function tls_CONF_CTX_set1_prefix() sets the command prefix of B<cctx>
to B<prefix>. If B<prefix> is B<NULL> it is restored to the default value.

=head1 NOTES

Command prefixes alter the commands recognised by subsequent tls_CONF_cmd()
calls. For example for files, if the prefix "tls" is set then command names
such as "tlsProtocol", "tlsOptions" etc. are recognised instead of "Protocol"
and "Options". Similarly for command lines if the prefix is "--tls-" then
"--tls-no_tls1_2" is recognised instead of "-no_tls1_2".

If the B<tls_CONF_FLAG_CMDLINE> flag is set then prefix checks are case
sensitive and "-" is the default. In the unlikely even an application
explicitly wants to set no prefix it must be explicitly set to "".

If the B<tls_CONF_FLAG_FILE> flag is set then prefix checks are case
insensitive and no prefix is the default.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CONF_CTX_set1_prefix() returns 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_new(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_set_flags(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls_ctx(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_cmd(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_cmd_argv(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in Opentls 1.0.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
