=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_set_session_secret_cb, tls_session_secret_cb_fn,
SSL_set_session_ticket_ext, SSL_set_session_ticket_ext_cb,
tls_session_ticket_ext_cb_fn
- set the session secret and EAP-FAST session ticket extension callbacks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 typedef int (*tls_session_secret_cb_fn)(SSL *s, void *secret, int *secret_len,
                                         STACK_OF(SSL_CIPHER) *peer_ciphers,
                                         const SSL_CIPHER **cipher, void *arg);

 int SSL_set_session_secret_cb(SSL *s,
                               tls_session_secret_cb_fn session_secret_cb,
                               void *arg);

 typedef int (*tls_session_ticket_ext_cb_fn)(SSL *s, const unsigned char *data,
                                             int len, void *arg);

 int SSL_set_session_ticket_ext(SSL *s, void *ext_data, int ext_len);

 int SSL_set_session_ticket_ext_cb(SSL *s,
                                   tls_session_ticket_ext_cb_fn cb,
                                   void *arg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_set_session_secret_cb() sets the session secret callback to be used
(I<session_secret_cb>), and an optional argument (I<arg>) to be passed to that
callback when it is called. This is only useful for an implementation of
EAP-FAST (RFC4851). The presence of the callback also modifies the internal
OpenSSL TLS state machine to match the modified TLS behaviour as described in
RFC4851. Therefore this callback should not be used except when implementing
EAP-FAST.

The callback is expected to set the master secret to be used by filling in the
data pointed to by I<*secret>. The size of the secret buffer is initially
available in I<*secret_len> and may be updated by the callback (but must not be
larger than the initial value).

On the server side the set of ciphersuites offered by the peer is provided in
the I<peer_ciphers> stack. Optionally the callback may select the preferred
ciphersuite by setting it in I<*cipher>.

On the client side the I<peer_ciphers> stack will always be NULL. The callback
may specify the preferred cipher in I<*cipher> and this will be associated with
the B<SSL_SESSION> - but it does not affect the ciphersuite selected by the
server.

The callback is also supplied with an additional argument in I<arg> which is the
argument that was provided to the original SSL_set_session_secret_cb() call.

SSL_set_session_ticket_ext() is used on the client-side to set the session ticket
extension data for EAP-FAST (RFC4851). The I<ext_data> argument is a pointer to
the extension data, and I<ext_len> is the length of that data. I<ext_len> must
be between 0 and 65535. If I<ext_data> is NULL, then the session ticket
extension will not be sent.

SSL_set_session_ticket_ext_cb() is used on the server-side to set a callback
(I<cb>) that will be called when a session ticket extension is received. The
callback is supplied with the extension data in I<data> and its length in
I<len>, as well as the additional argument I<arg> that was provided when the
callback was set.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_set_session_secret_cb(), SSL_set_session_ticket_ext(), and
SSL_set_session_ticket_ext_cb() return 1 on success and 0 on failure.

If the session secret callback returns 1 then this indicates it has successfully
set the secret. A return value of 0 indicates that the secret has not been set.
On the client this will cause an immediate abort of the handshake.

The session ticket extension callback should return 1 for success. A return value
of 0 indicates failure and will cause the handshake to abort immediately.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>,
L<SSL_get_session(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
