=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_set1_cache_id,
SSL_get0_cache_id,
SSL_SESSION_set1_cache_id,
SSL_SESSION_get0_cache_id,
SSL_get1_previous_client_session - use application-defined cache identifier for session caching

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 int SSL_set1_cache_id(SSL *s, const unsigned char *data, size_t len);
 int SSL_get0_cache_id(const SSL *s, const unsigned char **data, size_t *len);

 int SSL_SESSION_set1_cache_id(SSL_SESSION *ss, const unsigned char *data, size_t len);
 int SSL_SESSION_get0_cache_id(const SSL_SESSION *ss, const unsigned char **data, size_t *len);

 int SSL_get1_previous_client_session(SSL *s, int flags);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_set1_cache_id() sets the cache identifer specified by B<data> and B<len>
into B<s>. This cache identifier is application-defined, and can be a domain
name, IP address or other identifier.

SSL_get0_cache_id() returns the cache identifer of B<s> into the B<data> and
B<len> variables. The cache identifier is application-defined.

SSL_SESSION_set1_cache_id() sets the cache identifer specified by B<data> and B<len>
into B<ss>. This cache identifier is application-defined.

SSL_SESSION_get0_cache_id() returns the cache identifer of B<ss> into the B<data> and
B<len> variables. The cache identifier is application-defined.

SSL_get1_previous_client_session() is used to search for and return a
SSL_SESSION in the session cache. A cache identifier must first be set
via SSL_set1_cache_id().

=head1 NOTES

The OpenSSL library can store/retrieve SSL/TLS sessions for later reuse.
The sessions can be held in memory for each B<ctx>; if more than one
SSL_CTX object is being maintained, the sessions are unique for each SSL_CTX
object. The cache mode must be set to SSL_SESS_CACHE_CLIENT via
L<SSL_CTX_set_session_cache_mode(3)> in order to use application-defined
cache identifiers (otherwise session IDs are used).

In order to reuse a session, a client must send the session's id to the
server. It can only send exactly one id. The server then either
agrees to reuse the session or it starts a full handshake (to create a new
session).

To reuse a session, use the SSL_set1_cache_id() function to specify the
cache identifier of the server that the client is attempting to connect to. Set the
optional session ID context via L<SSL_CTX_set_session_id_context(3)> or
L<SSL_set_session_id_context(3)> before calling SSL_get1_previous_client_session().

After the session has been retrieved, it may be examined to determine whether
it can (or should) be used. The session must then be applied to the SSL object via the
L<SSL_set_session(3)> before it can be used during L<SSL_connect(3)>.

The session cache that is searched is specified by the SSL_CTX used in
L<SSL_new(3)>. The SSL_CTX set via L<SSL_set_SSL_CTX(3)> is not used
for the session cache.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The SSL_set1_cache_id(), SSL_get0_cache_id(), SSL_SESSION_set1_cache_id() and
SSL_SESSION_get0_cache_id() functions return 1 on success, 0 on failure.

The SSL_get0_cache_id() function fills in the B<data> and B<len> parameters
with the data from the B<s>.

The SSL_get_previous_client_session() returns an SSL_SESSION on success, or NULL on
failure. The error stack should be checked on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SSL_set_session(3)>
L<SSL_session_reused(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_add_session(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_sess_number(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_sess_set_cache_size(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_sess_set_get_cb(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_set_session_id_context(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_set_timeout(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_flush_sessions(3)>
L<SSL_CTX_set_session_cache_mode(3)>,
L<SSL_connect(3)>,
L<SSL_new(3)>,
L<SSL_set_SSL_CTX(3)>,

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
