=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_get_peer_tmp_key, tls_get_server_tmp_key, tls_get_tmp_key - get information
about temporary keys used during a handshake

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 long tls_get_peer_tmp_key(tls *tls, EVP_PKEY **key);
 long tls_get_server_tmp_key(tls *tls, EVP_PKEY **key);
 long tls_get_tmp_key(tls *tls, EVP_PKEY **key);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_get_peer_tmp_key() returns the temporary key provided by the peer and
used during key exchange. For example, if ECDHE is in use, then this represents
the peer's public ECDHE key. On success a pointer to the key is stored in
B<*key>. It is the caller's responsibility to free this key after use using
L<EVP_PKEY_free(3)>.

tls_get_server_tmp_key() is a backwards compatibility alias for
tls_get_peer_tmp_key().
Under that name it worked just on the client side of the connection, its
behaviour on the server end is release-dependent.

tls_get_tmp_key() returns the equivalent information for the local
end of the connection.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All these functions return 1 on success and 0 otherwise.

=head1 NOTES

This function is implemented as a macro.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<EVP_PKEY_free(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
