=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_get0_peer_rpk,
SSL_rpk_send_negotiated,
SSL_rpk_receive_negotiated,
SSL_SESSION_get0_peer_rpk,
SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk - raw public key (RFC7250) support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 EVP_PKEY *SSL_get0_peer_rpk(const SSL *s);
 EVP_PKEY *SSL_SESSION_get0_peer_rpk(const SSL_SESSION *ss);
 int SSL_rpk_send_negotiated(const SSL *s);
 int SSL_rpk_receive_negotiated(const SSL *s);
 int SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk(SSL *s, EVP_PKEY *pkey);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_get0_peer_rpk() returns the peer's raw public key from SSL B<s>.

SSL_rpk_send_negotiated() indicates whether sending a raw public key was
negotiated with the peer.

SSL_rpk_receive_negotiated() indicates whether receiving a raw public key
was negotiated with the peer.

SSL_SESSION_get0_peer_rpk() returns the peer's raw public key from
SSL_SESSION B<ss> in the case of resumption.

SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk() configures the given B<pkey>
as a public key that the peer is expected to present after negotiating
raw public keys (RFC7250). The reference count on the provided B<pkey> is
incremented when added to the SSL B<s>.

=head1 NOTES

Raw public keys are used in place of certificates when the option is
negotiated. Adding more than one key is possible to allow for key rotation,
where a peer might be expected to offer an "old" or "new" key and the endpoint
must be able to accept either one.  It also enables the use of different
types of keys along with signature-algorithm negotiation.

When raw public keys are used, the certificate verify callback is not called.
Raw public keys have no subject, issuer, validity dates nor digital signature.
The peer's raw public key must be added via SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk()
for the handshake to succeed. Multiple public keys may be added to the SSL B<s>.

The SSL_SESSION_get0_peer_rpk() and SSL_get0_peer_rpk() functions can be
used to retrieve a key that is then used in SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk().

The following options enable negotiation of raw public keys:

=over 4

=item SSL_OP_RPK_CLIENT

=item SSL_OP_RPK_SERVER

=back

The raw public key is normally taken from the certificate assigned to the
connection (e.g. via SSL_use_certificate()), but if a certificate is not
configured, then the public key will be extracted from the assigned
private key.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_get0_peer_rpk() and SSL_SESSION_get0_peer_rpk() return the peer's raw
public key as an EVP_PKEY or NULL when the raw public key is not available.

SSL_rpk_send_negotiated() and SSL_rpk_receive_negotiated() return 0 for false,
and 1 for true.

SSL_add1_expected_peer_rpk() returns 1 on success and 0 on failure.

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 3.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

=cut
