=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_new_pending_ssl_cb - callback function to report creation of QUIC connection SSL objects 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 typedef int (*SSL_set_new_pending_ssl_cb_fn)(SSL_CTX *c, SSL *new_ssl,
                                               void *arg);
 void SSL_CTX_set_new_pending_ssl_cb(SSL_CTX *c,
                                     SSL_set_new_pending_ssl_cb_fn *f,
                                     void *arg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_CTX_set_new_pending_ssl_cb() sets the new_pending_ssl callback function and
associated application data argument I<arg>.  When using the QUIC transport, TLS
handshake processing may occur independently from the thread which accepts the
connection that the handshake is establishing.  As such, B<SSL> objects
representing the connection may be allocated and initialized prior to a call to
SSL_accept_connection().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_new_pending_ssl_cb() returns no value.

SSL_set_new_pending_ssl_cb_fn() must return an integer value.  A return value of
0 indicates that the QUIC stack should discard this newly created B<SSL> object,
implying that the associated new connection will not be available for handling
on a subsequent call to SSL_accept_connection().  Any other non-zero return
value is treated as success, allowing the new connection to be enqueued to the
accept queue.

=head1 HISTORY

SSL_CTX_set_new_pending_ssl_cb() was added in OpenSSL 3.5.0

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
