=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_get_verify_result - get result of peer certificate verification

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 long tls_get_verify_result(const tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_get_verify_result() returns the result of the verification of the
X509 certificate presented by the peer, if any.

=head1 NOTES

tls_get_verify_result() can only return one error code while the verification
of a certificate can fail because of many reasons at the same time. Only
the last verification error that occurred during the processing is available
from tls_get_verify_result().

The verification result is part of the established session and is restored
when a session is reused.

=head1 BUGS

If no peer certificate was presented, the returned result code is
X509_V_OK. This is because no verification error occurred, it does however
not indicate success. tls_get_verify_result() is only useful in connection
with L<tls_get_peer_certificate(3)>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The following return values can currently occur:

=over 4

=item X509_V_OK

The verification succeeded or no peer certificate was presented.

=item Any other value

Documented in L<opentls-verify(1)>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_set_verify_result(3)>,
L<tls_get_peer_certificate(3)>,
L<opentls-verify(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
