=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_set_tls_version, tls_set_tls_method, tls_get_tls_method
- choose a new TLS/tls method

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int tls_CTX_set_tls_version(tls_CTX *ctx, const tls_METHOD *method);
 int tls_set_tls_method(tls *s, const tls_METHOD *method);
 const tls_METHOD *tls_get_tls_method(const tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_set_tls_version() sets a new default TLS/tls B<method> for tls objects
newly created from this B<ctx>. tls objects already created with
L<tls_new(3)> are not affected, except when
L<tls_clear(3)> is being called.

tls_set_tls_method() sets a new TLS/tls B<method> for a particular B<tls>
object. It may be reset, when tls_clear() is called.

tls_get_tls_method() returns a function pointer to the TLS/tls method
set in B<tls>.

=head1 NOTES

The available B<method> choices are described in
L<tls_CTX_new(3)>.

When L<tls_clear(3)> is called and no session is connected to
an tls object, the method of the tls object is reset to the method currently
set in the corresponding tls_CTX object.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The following return values can occur for tls_CTX_set_tls_version()
and tls_set_tls_method():

=over 4

=item Z<>0

The new choice failed, check the error stack to find out the reason.

=item Z<>1

The operation succeeded.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls_CTX_new(3)>, L<tls_new(3)>,
L<tls_clear(3)>, L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_set_connect_state(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
