=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_SESSION_get0_id_context,
tls_SESSION_set1_id_context
- get and set the tls ID context associated with a session

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 const unsigned char *tls_SESSION_get0_id_context(const tls_SESSION *s,
                                                  unsigned int *len)
 int tls_SESSION_set1_id_context(tls_SESSION *s, const unsigned char *sid_ctx,
                                unsigned int sid_ctx_len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

See L<tls_CTX_set_session_id_context(3)> for further details on session ID
contexts.

tls_SESSION_get0_id_context() returns the ID context associated with
the tls/TLS session B<s>. The length of the ID context is written to
B<*len> if B<len> is not NULL.

The value returned is a pointer to an object maintained within B<s> and
should not be released.

tls_SESSION_set1_id_context() takes a copy of the provided ID context given in
B<sid_ctx> and associates it with the session B<s>. The length of the ID context
is given by B<sid_ctx_len> which must not exceed tls_MAX_SID_CTX_LENGTH bytes.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_SESSION_set1_id_context() returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_set_session_id_context(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The tls_SESSION_get0_id_context() function was added in Opentls 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
