=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_free - free an allocated tls structure

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 void tls_free(tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_free() decrements the reference count of B<tls>, and removes the tls
structure pointed to by B<tls> and frees up the allocated memory if the
reference count has reached 0.
If B<tls> is NULL nothing is done.

=head1 NOTES

tls_free() also calls the free()ing procedures for indirectly affected items, if
applicable: the buffering BIO, the read and write BIOs,
cipher lists specially created for this B<tls>, the B<tls_SESSION>.
Do not explicitly free these indirectly freed up items before or after
calling tls_free(), as trying to free things twice may lead to program
failure.

The tls session has reference counts from two users: the tls object, for
which the reference count is removed by tls_free() and the internal
session cache. If the session is considered bad, because
L<tls_shutdown(3)> was not called for the connection
and L<tls_set_shutdown(3)> was not used to set the
tls_SENT_SHUTDOWN state, the session will also be removed
from the session cache as required by RFC2246.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_free() does not provide diagnostic information.

L<tls_new(3)>, L<tls_clear(3)>,
L<tls_shutdown(3)>, L<tls_set_shutdown(3)>,
L<tls(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
