=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert,
tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs,
tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs_only,
tls_CTX_clear_extra_chain_certs
- add, get or clear extra chain certificates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 long tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert(tls_CTX *ctx, X509 *x509);
 long tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs(tls_CTX *ctx, STACK_OF(X509) **sk);
 long tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs_only(tls_CTX *ctx, STACK_OF(X509) **sk);
 long tls_CTX_clear_extra_chain_certs(tls_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert() adds the certificate B<x509> to the extra chain
certificates associated with B<ctx>. Several certificates can be added one
after another.

tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs() retrieves the extra chain certificates
associated with B<ctx>, or the chain associated with the current certificate
of B<ctx> if the extra chain is empty.
The returned stack should not be freed by the caller.

tls_CTX_get_extra_chain_certs_only() retrieves the extra chain certificates
associated with B<ctx>.
The returned stack should not be freed by the caller.

tls_CTX_clear_extra_chain_certs() clears all extra chain certificates
associated with B<ctx>.

These functions are implemented as macros.

=head1 NOTES

When sending a certificate chain, extra chain certificates are sent in order
following the end entity certificate.

If no chain is specified, the library will try to complete the chain from the
available CA certificates in the trusted CA storage, see
L<tls_CTX_load_verify_locations(3)>.

The B<x509> certificate provided to tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert() will be
freed by the library when the B<tls_CTX> is destroyed. An application
B<should not> free the B<x509> object.

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

Only one set of extra chain certificates can be specified per tls_CTX
structure. Different chains for different certificates (for example if both
RSA and DSA certificates are specified by the same server) or different tls
structures with the same parent tls_CTX cannot be specified using this
function. For more flexibility functions such as tls_add1_chain_cert() should
be used instead.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert() and tls_CTX_clear_extra_chain_certs() return
1 on success and 0 for failure. Check out the error stack to find out the
reason for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_CTX_use_certificate(3)>,
L<tls_CTX_set_client_cert_cb(3)>,
L<tls_CTX_load_verify_locations(3)>
L<tls_CTX_set0_chain(3)>
L<tls_CTX_set1_chain(3)>
L<tls_CTX_add0_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_CTX_add1_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_set0_chain(3)>
L<tls_set1_chain(3)>
L<tls_add0_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_add1_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_CTX_build_cert_chain(3)>
L<tls_build_cert_chain(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
