=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_set0_verify_cert_store, tls_CTX_set1_verify_cert_store,
tls_CTX_set0_chain_cert_store, tls_CTX_set1_chain_cert_store,
tls_set0_verify_cert_store, tls_set1_verify_cert_store,
tls_set0_chain_cert_store, tls_set1_chain_cert_store - set certificate
verification or chain store

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int tls_CTX_set0_verify_cert_store(tls_CTX *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_CTX_set1_verify_cert_store(tls_CTX *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_CTX_set0_chain_cert_store(tls_CTX *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_CTX_set1_chain_cert_store(tls_CTX *ctx, X509_STORE *st);

 int tls_set0_verify_cert_store(tls *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_set1_verify_cert_store(tls *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_set0_chain_cert_store(tls *ctx, X509_STORE *st);
 int tls_set1_chain_cert_store(tls *ctx, X509_STORE *st);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_set0_verify_cert_store() and tls_CTX_set1_verify_cert_store()
set the certificate store used for certificate verification to B<st>.

tls_CTX_set0_chain_cert_store() and tls_CTX_set1_chain_cert_store()
set the certificate store used for certificate chain building to B<st>.

tls_set0_verify_cert_store(), tls_set1_verify_cert_store(),
tls_set0_chain_cert_store() and tls_set1_chain_cert_store() are similar
except they apply to tls structure B<tls>.

All these functions are implemented as macros. Those containing a B<1>
increment the reference count of the supplied store so it must
be freed at some point after the operation. Those containing a B<0> do
not increment reference counts and the supplied store B<MUST NOT> be freed
after the operation.

=head1 NOTES

The stores pointers associated with an tls_CTX structure are copied to any tls
structures when tls_new() is called. As a result tls structures will not be
affected if the parent tls_CTX store pointer is set to a new value.

The verification store is used to verify the certificate chain sent by the
peer: that is an tls/TLS client will use the verification store to verify
the server's certificate chain and a tls/TLS server will use it to verify
any client certificate chain.

The chain store is used to build the certificate chain.

If the mode B<tls_MODE_NO_AUTO_CHAIN> is set or a certificate chain is
configured already (for example using the functions such as
L<tls_CTX_add1_chain_cert(3)> or
L<tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert(3)>) then
automatic chain building is disabled.

If the mode B<tls_MODE_NO_AUTO_CHAIN> is set then automatic chain building
is disabled.

If the chain or the verification store is not set then the store associated
with the parent tls_CTX is used instead to retain compatibility with previous
versions of Opentls.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All these functions return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_CTX_add_extra_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_CTX_set0_chain(3)>
L<tls_CTX_set1_chain(3)>
L<tls_CTX_add0_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_CTX_add1_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_set0_chain(3)>
L<tls_set1_chain(3)>
L<tls_add0_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_add1_chain_cert(3)>
L<tls_CTX_build_cert_chain(3)>
L<tls_build_cert_chain(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in Opentls 1.0.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
