=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls_ctx, tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls - set context to configure

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 void tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls_ctx(tls_CONF_CTX *cctx, tls_CTX *ctx);
 void tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls(tls_CONF_CTX *cctx, tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls_ctx() sets the context associated with B<cctx> to the
B<tls_CTX> structure B<ctx>. Any previous B<tls> or B<tls_CTX> associated with
B<cctx> is cleared. Subsequent calls to tls_CONF_cmd() will be sent to
B<ctx>.

tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls() sets the context associated with B<cctx> to the
B<tls> structure B<tls>. Any previous B<tls> or B<tls_CTX> associated with
B<cctx> is cleared. Subsequent calls to tls_CONF_cmd() will be sent to
B<tls>.

=head1 NOTES

The context need not be set or it can be set to B<NULL> in which case only
syntax checking of commands is performed, where possible.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CONF_CTX_set_tls_ctx() and tls_CTX_set_tls() do not return a value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_new(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_set_flags(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_CTX_set1_prefix(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_cmd(3)>,
L<tls_CONF_cmd_argv(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in Opentls 1.0.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
