=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_get_verify_mode, tls_get_verify_mode, tls_CTX_get_verify_depth, tls_get_verify_depth, tls_get_verify_callback, tls_CTX_get_verify_callback - get currently set verification parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 int tls_CTX_get_verify_mode(const tls_CTX *ctx);
 int tls_get_verify_mode(const tls *tls);
 int tls_CTX_get_verify_depth(const tls_CTX *ctx);
 int tls_get_verify_depth(const tls *tls);
 int (*tls_CTX_get_verify_callback(const tls_CTX *ctx))(int, X509_STORE_CTX *);
 int (*tls_get_verify_callback(const tls *tls))(int, X509_STORE_CTX *);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_get_verify_mode() returns the verification mode currently set in
B<ctx>.

tls_get_verify_mode() returns the verification mode currently set in
B<tls>.

tls_CTX_get_verify_depth() returns the verification depth limit currently set
in B<ctx>. If no limit has been explicitly set, -1 is returned and the
default value will be used.

tls_get_verify_depth() returns the verification depth limit currently set
in B<tls>. If no limit has been explicitly set, -1 is returned and the
default value will be used.

tls_CTX_get_verify_callback() returns a function pointer to the verification
callback currently set in B<ctx>. If no callback was explicitly set, the
NULL pointer is returned and the default callback will be used.

tls_get_verify_callback() returns a function pointer to the verification
callback currently set in B<tls>. If no callback was explicitly set, the
NULL pointer is returned and the default callback will be used.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

See DESCRIPTION

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_CTX_set_verify(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
