=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_new_listener, SSL_new_listener_from, SSL_is_listener, SSL_get0_listener,
SSL_listen, SSL_listen_ex,
SSL_accept_connection, SSL_get_accept_connection_queue_len,
SSL_listener_set_pending_timeout, SSL_listener_get_pending_timeout,
SSL_new_from_listener,
SSL_ACCEPT_CONNECTION_NO_BLOCK,
SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE,
SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR,
SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR,
SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_MULTI_THREAD - SSL object interface for abstracted connection
acceptance

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 SSL *SSL_new_listener(SSL_CTX *ctx, uint64_t flags);
 SSL *SSL_new_listener_from(SSL *ssl, uint64_t flags);

 int SSL_is_listener(SSL *ssl);
 SSL *SSL_get0_listener(SSL *ssl);

 int SSL_listen(SSL *ssl);
 int SSL_listen_ex(SSL *ssl, SSL *new_conn);

 #define SSL_ACCEPT_CONNECTION_NO_BLOCK

 #define SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE
 #define SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR
 #define SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR
 #define SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_MULTI_THREAD

 SSL *SSL_accept_connection(SSL *ssl, uint64_t flags);

 size_t SSL_get_accept_connection_queue_len(SSL *ssl);

 int SSL_listener_set_pending_timeout(SSL *ssl, uint64_t timeout_ms);
 uint64_t SSL_listener_get_pending_timeout(const SSL *ssl);

 SSL *SSL_new_from_listener(SSL *ssl, uint64_t flags);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The SSL_new_listener() function creates a listener SSL object.  Listener SSL
objects are specialised to only accept network connections in a protocol-
agnostic manner. They cannot be used, for example, for sending or receiving data
using L<SSL_write_ex(3)> or L<SSL_read_ex(3)>. In general, only those functions
expressly documented as being supported on a listener SSL object are available.

The SSL_new_listener_from() function creates a listener SSL object which is
subordinate to a QUIC domain SSL object I<ssl>. See L<SSL_new_domain(3)> and
L<openssl-quic-concurrency(7)> for details on QUIC domain SSL objects.

A listener SSL object supports the following operations:

=over 4

=item

Standard reference counting and free operations, such as L<SSL_up_ref(3)> and
L<SSL_free(3)>;

=item

Network BIO configuration operations, such as L<SSL_set_bio(3)>;

=item

Event processing and polling enablement APIs such as L<SSL_handle_events(3)>,
L<SSL_get_event_timeout(3)>, L<SSL_get_rpoll_descriptor(3)>,
L<SSL_get_wpoll_descriptor(3)>, L<SSL_net_read_desired(3)> and
L<SSL_net_write_desired(3)>;

=item

Certain configurable parameters described in L<SSL_get_value_uint(3)> (see
L<SSL_get_value_uint(3)> for details);

=item

Accepting network connections using the functions documented in this manual
page, such as SSL_accept_connection().

=back

The basic workflow of using a listener object is as follows:

=over 4

=item

Create a new listener object using SSL_new_listener() using a B<SSL_CTX> which
uses a supported B<SSL_METHOD> (such as L<OSSL_QUIC_server_method(3)>);

=item

Configure appropriate network BIOs using L<SSL_set_bio(3)> on the listener SSL
object;

=item

Configure the blocking mode using L<SSL_set_blocking_mode(3)>;

=item

Accept connections in a loop by calling SSL_accept_connection(). Each returned
SSL object is a valid connection which can be used in a normal manner.

=back

The SSL_is_listener() function returns 1 if and only if a SSL object is a
listener SSL object.

The SSL_get0_listener() function returns a listener object which is related to
the given SSL object, if there is one. For a listener object, this is the same
object (the function returns its argument). For a connection object which was
created by a listener object, that listener object is returned. If the I<ssl>
argument is an SSL object which is not a listener object and which is not
descended from a listener object (e.g. a connection obtained using
SSL_accept_connection()) or indirectly from a listener object (e.g. a QUIC
stream SSL object obtained using SSL_accept_stream() called on a connection
obtained using SSL_accept_connection()) the return value is NULL. See NOTES
below for caveats related to pending SSL connections on a QUIC listener's accept
queue.

The SSL_listen() function begins monitoring the listener I<ssl> for incoming
connections. Appropriate BIOs must have been configured before calling
SSL_listen(), along with any other needed configuration for the listener SSL
object. It is typically not necessary to call SSL_listen() because it will be
called automatically on the first call to SSL_accept_connection(). However,
SSL_listen() may be called explicitly if it is desired to control precisely when
the listening process begins, or to ensure that no errors occur when starting to
listen for connections. After a call to SSL_listen() (or
SSL_accept_connection()) succeeds. The SSL_listen() function is idempotent,
subsequent calls on the same I<ssl> object are no-ops. This call is supported
only on listener SSL objects.

The SSL_listen_ex() function behaves in a similar fashion to L<DTLSv1_listen(3)>
in that it polls a listening SSL object, and, if a new connection is available,
writes that connection into the SSL object pointed to by B<new_conn>.  Note that
once a connection is returned from a listener via this call, accepting
connections via L<SSL_accept_connection(3)> is no longer permissible, and will
result in an error.  Note that many calls into the QUIC api may trigger the quic reactor
(such as L<SSL_poll(3)>), and will set the port into a mode in which L<SSL_accept_connection(3)>
is assumed.  To avoid this, it is recommended that, if the use of SSL_listen_ex use is desired, that
it is the first I/O call made to the SSL object to which the port is attached.

Likewise, if a listener has accepted a connection via
L<SSL_accept_connection(3)>, it is impermissible to accept connections via
B<SSL_listen_ex()>.  Note also that SSL objects passed in the B<new_conn>
parameter to B<SSL_listen_ex()> must be created using L<OSSL_QUIC_method(3)> or
L<OSSL_QUIC_server_method(3)>.

The SSL_accept_connection() call is supported only on a listener SSL object and
accepts a new incoming connection. A new SSL object representing the accepted
connection is created and returned on success. If no incoming connection is
available and the listener SSL object is configured in nonblocking mode, NULL is
returned.

The new SSL object returned from SSL_accept_connection() may or may not have
completed its handshake at the point it is returned. Optionally, you may use the
function L<SSL_is_init_finished(3)> to determine this. You may call the
functions L<SSL_accept(3)>, L<SSL_do_handshake(3)> or L<SSL_handle_events(3)> to
progress the state of the SSL object towards handshake completion. Other "I/O"
functions may also implicitly progress the state of the handshake such as
L<SSL_poll(3)>, L<SSL_read(3)> and L<SSL_write(3)>.

The B<SSL_ACCEPT_CONNECTION_NO_BLOCK> flag may be specified to
SSL_accept_connection(). If specified, the call does not block even if the
listener SSL object is configured in blocking mode.

The SSL_get_accept_connection_queue_len() call returns the number of pending
connections on the I<ssl> listener's queue. SSL_accept_connection() returns the
next pending connection, removing it from the queue. The returned connection
count is a point-in-time value, the actual number of connections that will
ultimately be returned may be different.

The SSL_listener_set_pending_timeout() function sets the timeout in milliseconds
for pending connections on a DTLS listener. Pending connections are those that
have begun the handshake but have not yet completed it. If a pending connection
does not complete its handshake within the specified timeout, it will be
automatically cleaned up to prevent resource exhaustion from abandoned or slow
connections. The I<timeout_ms> parameter specifies the timeout in milliseconds.
A value of B<UINT64_MAX> disables timeout checking. The default timeout is 30
seconds. Returns 1 on success, 0 on failure.

The SSL_listener_get_pending_timeout() function returns the current pending
connection timeout in milliseconds for a DTLS listener. Returns B<UINT64_MAX>
if timeout checking is disabled, or 0 if the SSL object is not a DTLS listener.

Currently, listener SSL objects are supported for QUIC server usage via
L<OSSL_QUIC_server_method(3)>, QUIC client-only usage via
L<OSSL_QUIC_client_method(3)> or L<OSSL_QUIC_client_thread_method(3)> (see
L</CLIENT-ONLY USAGE>), and DTLS server usage via L<DTLS_server_method(3)>.
The listener interface provides an abstracted API for connection acceptance
that may be expanded to support other protocols in the future.

SSL_listen() and SSL_accept_connection() are "I/O" functions, meaning that they
update the value returned by L<SSL_get_error(3)> if they fail.

=head1 CLIENT-ONLY USAGE

It is also possible to use the listener interface without accepting any
connections and without listening for connections. This can be useful in
circumstances where it is desirable for multiple connections to share the same
underlying network resources. For example, multiple outgoing QUIC client
connections could be made to use the same underlying UDP socket.

To disable client address validation on a listener SSL object, the flag
B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE> may be passed in the flags field of both
SSL_new_listener() and SSL_new_listener_from().  Note that this flag only
impacts the sending of retry frames for server address validation.  Tokens may
still be communicated from the server via NEW_TOKEN frames, which will still
be validated on receipt in future connections.  Note that this setting is not
recommended and may be dangerous in untrusted environments.  Not performing
address validation exposes the server to malicious clients that may open large
numbers of connections and never transact data on them (roughly equivalent to
a TCP syn flood attack), which address validation mitigates.

The SSL_new_from_listener() function creates a client connection under a given
listener SSL object. For QUIC, it is also possible to use
SSL_new_from_listener(), leading to a UDP network endpoint which has both
incoming and outgoing connections.

The I<flags> argument of SSL_new_from_listener() is reserved and must be set to
0.

=head1 DTLS LISTENER USAGE

The SSL_new_listener() function supports DTLS when called with an SSL_CTX
created using L<DTLS_server_method(3)> or L<DTLS_method(3)>. A DTLS listener
provides server-side connection demultiplexing, allowing multiple DTLS clients
to connect to the same UDP socket.

For DTLS listeners, the following flags control address validation behavior:

=over 4

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE>

Disables all address validation. The listener will not send HelloVerifyRequest
(for DTLS 1.0/1.2) or HelloRetryRequest with cookie (for DTLS 1.3). This is
faster but provides no protection against amplification attacks. Not
recommended for use in untrusted network environments.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR>

Requires HelloVerifyRequest (HVR) cookie exchange for DTLS 1.0 and DTLS 1.2
connections. The listener will send an HVR with a cookie, and the client must
respond with a ClientHello containing the valid cookie before the handshake
proceeds. This provides protection against amplification attacks for pre-1.3
DTLS versions.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR>

Requires HelloRetryRequest (HRR) cookie exchange for DTLS 1.3 connections.
The listener will send an HRR with a cookie extension, and the client must
respond with a second ClientHello containing the valid cookie. This provides
protection against amplification attacks for DTLS 1.3.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_MULTI_THREAD>

Enables multi-threaded support for the DTLS listener. When this flag is set,
the listener initializes internal synchronization mechanisms that allow
connections accepted from the listener to be safely used from multiple threads
concurrently. This includes a notifier mechanism that enables efficient polling
across threads - when data arrives for a connection while another thread is
blocked in L<SSL_poll(3)>, that thread will be woken up.

If this flag is not set, the listener operates in single-threaded mode and
connections should only be used from a single thread. Single-threaded mode
avoids the overhead of the notifier mechanism.

This flag is only applicable to DTLS listeners.

=back

Both B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR> and B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR> may
be specified together to enable address validation for all supported DTLS
versions.

For DTLS listeners, SSL_accept_connection() returns a connection after cookie
validation is complete (if required) or after receiving the first ClientHello
(if B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE> is set). The handshake is B<not> complete
at this point. The application must call L<SSL_do_handshake(3)> or
L<SSL_accept(3)> to complete the handshake before sending or receiving
application data.

If cookie generation and verification callbacks have not been set on the
SSL_CTX using L<SSL_CTX_set_cookie_generate_cb(3)> and
L<SSL_CTX_set_cookie_verify_cb(3)> (for HVR) or
L<SSL_CTX_set_stateless_cookie_generate_cb(3)> and
L<SSL_CTX_set_stateless_cookie_verify_cb(3)> (for HRR), the DTLS listener will
install internal default callbacks automatically. These internal callbacks
generate and verify cookies based on the client's address, providing basic
amplification attack protection without requiring application-specific
callback implementations.

A typical DTLS server using the listener API looks like:

 SSL_CTX *ctx = SSL_CTX_new(DTLS_server_method());
 SSL_CTX_use_certificate_file(ctx, "server.pem", SSL_FILETYPE_PEM);
 SSL_CTX_use_PrivateKey_file(ctx, "key.pem", SSL_FILETYPE_PEM);

 /* Create listener with HVR and HRR requirements */
 SSL *listener = SSL_new_listener(ctx,
     SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR | SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR);

 /* Set up UDP socket BIO */
 BIO *bio = BIO_new_dgram(socket_fd, BIO_NOCLOSE);
 SSL_set_bio(listener, bio, bio);

 /* Start listening */
 SSL_listen(listener);

 /* Accept connections */
 while ((conn = SSL_accept_connection(listener,
                    SSL_ACCEPT_CONNECTION_NO_BLOCK)) != NULL) {
     /*
      * conn has passed cookie validation but handshake is not complete.
      * Complete the handshake with SSL_do_handshake() or SSL_accept().
      */
     if (SSL_do_handshake(conn) != 1) {
         /* Handle handshake error or retry */
     }
     /* Handle the connection... */
 }

Note that SSL_new_listener_from() and SSL_listen_ex() are not supported for
DTLS listeners and will return NULL or an error if called with a DTLS SSL
object.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_new_listener() and SSL_new_listener_from() return a new listener SSL object
or NULL on failure.

SSL_is_listener() returns 1 if its I<ssl> argument is a listener object, 0
otherwise.

SSL_get0_listener() returns an SSL object pointer (potentially to the same
object on which it is called) or NULL.

SSL_listen() returns 1 on success or 0 on failure.

SSL_listen_ex() returns 1 when a new connection was accepted on the new_conn
parameter, 0 if no new connection was available at the time of the call, or -1
in the event an internal error occurred, signaling a need to check the error
queue.

SSL_accept_connection() returns a pointer to a new SSL object on success or NULL
on failure. On success, the caller assumes ownership of the reference.

SSL_get_accept_connection_queue_len() returns a nonnegative value, or 0 if the
queue is empty, or called on an unsupported SSL object type.

SSL_listener_set_pending_timeout() returns 1 on success, or 0 on failure (if
the SSL object is not a DTLS listener).

SSL_listener_get_pending_timeout() returns the timeout in milliseconds,
B<UINT64_MAX> if timeout checking is disabled, or 0 if the SSL object is not a
DTLS listener.

SSL_new_from_listener() returns a pointer to a new SSL object on success or NULL
on failure. On success, the caller assumes ownership of the reference.

=head1 NOTES

SSL_get0_listener() behaves somewhat differently in SSL callbacks for QUIC
connections.  As QUIC connections begin TLS handshake operations prior to them
being accepted via SSL_accept_connection(), an application may receive callbacks
for such pending connection prior to acceptance via SSL_accept_connection().  As
listener association takes place during the accept process, prior to being
returned from SSL_accept_connection(), calls to SSL_get0_listener() made from
such SSL callbacks will return NULL.  This can be used as an indicator within
the callback that the referenced SSL object has not yet been accepted.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_QUIC_server_method(3)>, L<DTLS_server_method(3)>, L<DTLSv1_listen(3)>,
L<SSL_free(3)>, L<SSL_set_bio(3)>, L<SSL_handle_events(3)>,
L<SSL_get_rpoll_descriptor(3)>, L<SSL_set_blocking_mode(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_cookie_generate_cb(3)>, L<SSL_CTX_set_cookie_verify_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_stateless_cookie_generate_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_stateless_cookie_verify_cb(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 3.5.

SSL_listen_ex() was added in OpenSSL 4.0.

DTLS listener support (including B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR> and
B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR> flags) was added in OpenSSL 4.1.

B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_MULTI_THREAD> was added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024-2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
