=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_set_keylog_callback, tls_CTX_get_keylog_callback,
tls_CTX_keylog_cb_func - logging TLS key material

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 typedef void (*tls_CTX_keylog_cb_func)(const tls *tls, const char *line);

 void tls_CTX_set_keylog_callback(tls_CTX *ctx, tls_CTX_keylog_cb_func cb);
 tls_CTX_keylog_cb_func tls_CTX_get_keylog_callback(const tls_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_set_keylog_callback() sets the TLS key logging callback. This callback
is called whenever TLS key material is generated or received, in order to allow
applications to store this keying material for debugging purposes.

tls_CTX_get_keylog_callback() retrieves the previously set TLS key logging
callback. If no callback has been set, this will return NULL. When there is no
key logging callback, or if tls_CTX_set_keylog_callback is called with NULL as
the value of cb, no logging of key material will be done.

The key logging callback is called with two items: the B<tls> object associated
with the connection, and B<line>, a string containing the key material in the
format used by NSS for its B<tlsKEYLOGFILE> debugging output. To recreate that
file, the key logging callback should log B<line>, followed by a newline.
B<line> will always be a NULL-terminated string.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CTX_get_keylog_callback() returns a pointer to B<tls_CTX_keylog_cb_func> or
NULL if the callback is not set.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
