=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_sess_number, tls_CTX_sess_connect, tls_CTX_sess_connect_good, tls_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate, tls_CTX_sess_accept, tls_CTX_sess_accept_good, tls_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate, tls_CTX_sess_hits, tls_CTX_sess_cb_hits, tls_CTX_sess_misses, tls_CTX_sess_timeouts, tls_CTX_sess_cache_full - obtain session cache statistics

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 long tls_CTX_sess_number(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_connect(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_connect_good(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_accept(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_accept_good(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_hits(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_cb_hits(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_misses(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_timeouts(tls_CTX *ctx);
 long tls_CTX_sess_cache_full(tls_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_sess_number() returns the current number of sessions in the internal
session cache.

tls_CTX_sess_connect() returns the number of started tls/TLS handshakes in
client mode.

tls_CTX_sess_connect_good() returns the number of successfully established
tls/TLS sessions in client mode.

tls_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate() returns the number of started renegotiations
in client mode.

tls_CTX_sess_accept() returns the number of started tls/TLS handshakes in
server mode.

tls_CTX_sess_accept_good() returns the number of successfully established
tls/TLS sessions in server mode.

tls_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate() returns the number of started renegotiations
in server mode.

tls_CTX_sess_hits() returns the number of successfully reused sessions.
In client mode a session set with L<tls_set_session(3)>
successfully reused is counted as a hit. In server mode a session successfully
retrieved from internal or external cache is counted as a hit.

tls_CTX_sess_cb_hits() returns the number of successfully retrieved sessions
from the external session cache in server mode.

tls_CTX_sess_misses() returns the number of sessions proposed by clients
that were not found in the internal session cache in server mode.

tls_CTX_sess_timeouts() returns the number of sessions proposed by clients
and either found in the internal or external session cache in server mode,
 but that were invalid due to timeout. These sessions are not included in
the tls_CTX_sess_hits() count.

tls_CTX_sess_cache_full() returns the number of sessions that were removed
because the maximum session cache size was exceeded.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The functions return the values indicated in the DESCRIPTION section.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_set_session(3)>,
L<tls_CTX_set_session_cache_mode(3)>
L<tls_CTX_sess_set_cache_size(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
