=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_rstate_string, tls_rstate_string_long - get textual description of state of an tls object during read operation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 const char *tls_rstate_string(tls *tls);
 const char *tls_rstate_string_long(tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_rstate_string() returns a 2 letter string indicating the current read state
of the tls object B<tls>.

tls_rstate_string_long() returns a string indicating the current read state of
the tls object B<tls>.

=head1 NOTES

When performing a read operation, the tls/TLS engine must parse the record,
consisting of header and body. When working in a blocking environment,
tls_rstate_string[_long]() should always return "RD"/"read done".

This function should only seldom be needed in applications.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_rstate_string() and tls_rstate_string_long() can return the following
values:

=over 4

=item "RH"/"read header"

The header of the record is being evaluated.

=item "RB"/"read body"

The body of the record is being evaluated.

=item "RD"/"read done"

The record has been completely processed.

=item "unknown"/"unknown"

The read state is unknown. This should never happen.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
