=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback, SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_arg,
SSL_get_servername_type, SSL_get_servername,
SSL_set_tlsext_host_name - handle server name indication (SNI)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 long SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback(SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                   int (*cb)(SSL *s, int *al, void *arg));
 long SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_arg(SSL_CTX *ctx, void *arg);

 const char *SSL_get_servername(const SSL *s, int type);
 int SSL_get_servername_type(const SSL *s);

 int SSL_set_tlsext_host_name(const SSL *s, const char *name);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The functionality provided by the servername callback is mostly superseded by
the ClientHello callback, which can be set using SSL_CTX_set_client_hello_cb().
However, even where the ClientHello callback is used, the servername callback is
still necessary in order to acknowledge the servername requested by the client.

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback() sets the application callback I<cb>
used by a server to perform any actions or configuration required based on
the servername extension received in the incoming connection. When I<cb>
is NULL, SNI is not used. Note that this callback occurs late in the processing
of the ClientHello message. In particular it happens after session resumption
has occurred, and so typically this callback should not call functions such
as L<SSL_set_session_id_context(3)> since it is too late to affect the session
resumption for the current handshake.

The servername callback should return one of the following values:

=over 4

=item SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_OK

This is used to indicate that the servername requested by the client has been
accepted.  The recommended way for a server to install a credential matching
the requested servername is to validate and record the name in this callback
and then install the desired certificate, private key, and chain from a
certificate callback registered with L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)>, typically by
calling L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)>.  This per-connection approach avoids
provisioning a parallel B<SSL_CTX> for each servername variant; see
L</EXAMPLES> below.

The older approach of swapping the entire B<SSL_CTX> with
L<SSL_set_SSL_CTX(3)> from inside this callback is still supported but
is no longer recommended.  SSL_set_SSL_CTX() updates only a narrow
subset of the B<SSL> object's state (essentially its certificate set,
custom-extension flags, and, under narrow conditions, the session ID
context); the verify mode, B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM>, B<SSL_OP_*> options,
post-handshake auth configuration, cipher list, protocol-version
bounds, ALPN configuration, and most other settings remain at the
values inherited from the original B<SSL_CTX>.  Applications that need
any of those to differ between servernames must reapply them on the
B<SSL> object explicitly; see L<SSL_set_SSL_CTX(3)> for the full list
and rationale.

=item SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_NOACK

This return value indicates that the servername is not accepted by the server.
No alerts are sent and the server will not acknowledge the requested servername.

=item SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_FATAL

In this case the servername requested by the client is not accepted and the
handshake will be aborted. The value of the alert to be used should be stored in
the location pointed to by the I<al> parameter to the callback. By default this
value is initialised to B<SSL_AD_UNRECOGNIZED_NAME>.

=item SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_WARNING

If this value is returned then the servername is not accepted by the server.
However, the handshake will continue and send a warning alert instead. The value
of the alert should be stored in the location pointed to by the I<al> parameter
as for SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_FATAL above. Note that TLSv1.3 does not support
warning alerts, so if TLSv1.3 has been negotiated then this return value is
treated the same way as SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_NOACK.

=back

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_arg() sets a context-specific argument to be
passed into the callback (via the B<arg> parameter) for this B<SSL_CTX>.

The behaviour of SSL_get_servername() depends on a number of different factors.
In particular note that in TLSv1.3 the servername is negotiated in every
handshake. In TLSv1.2 the servername is only negotiated on initial handshakes
and not on resumption handshakes.

=over 4

=item On the client, before the handshake

If a servername has been set via a call to SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() then it
will return that servername.

If one has not been set, but a TLSv1.2 resumption is being attempted and the
session from the original handshake had a servername accepted by the server then
it will return that servername.

Otherwise it returns NULL.

=item On the client, during or after the handshake and a TLSv1.2 (or below)
resumption occurred

If the session from the original handshake had a servername accepted by the
server then it will return that servername.

Otherwise it returns the servername set via SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() or NULL
if it was not called.

=item On the client, during or after the handshake and a TLSv1.2 (or below)
resumption did not occur

It will return the servername set via SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() or NULL if it
was not called.

=item On the server, before the handshake

The function will always return NULL before the handshake

=item On the server, after the servername extension has been processed and a
TLSv1.2 (or below) resumption occurred

If a servername was accepted by the server in the original handshake then it
will return that servername, or NULL otherwise.

=item On the server, after the servername extension has been processed and a
TLSv1.2 (or below) resumption did not occur

The function will return the servername requested by the client in this
handshake or NULL if none was requested.

=back

Note that the ClientHello callback occurs before a servername extension from the
client is processed. The servername, certificate and ALPN callbacks occur after
a servername extension from the client is processed.

SSL_get_servername_type() returns the servername type or -1 if no servername
is present. Currently the only supported type (defined in RFC3546) is
B<TLSEXT_NAMETYPE_host_name>.

SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() sets the server name indication ClientHello extension
to contain the value B<name>. The type of server name indication extension is set
to B<TLSEXT_NAMETYPE_host_name> (defined in RFC3546).

=head1 NOTES

Several callbacks are executed during ClientHello processing, including
the ClientHello, ALPN, and servername callbacks.  The ClientHello callback is
executed first, then the servername callback, followed by the ALPN callback.

The SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() function should only be called on SSL objects
that will act as clients; otherwise the configured B<name> will be ignored.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback() and
SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_arg() both always return 1 indicating success.
SSL_set_tlsext_host_name() returns 1 on success, 0 in case of error.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The recommended way to select SNI-based server credentials is to split
the work between two callbacks: the servername callback validates and
records the requested name, while a certificate callback registered via
L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)> installs the matching credential(s) when the server
is ready to choose a certificate to return to the client.

With TLS 1.3 the servername callback may be invoked twice, the second
time after a HelloRetryRequest.  On the second call it is enough to
check that the name has not changed and return success.

The following sketch (error handling abbreviated) shows the overall shape:

 typedef struct app_conn_st {
     char *peer_sni;          /* recorded by servername_cb */
     /* ...other per-connection state... */
 } APP_CONN;

 /* For one or more triples of leaf certificate, private key and issuer
  * certificate chain (0 means no override; attempting to load a second
  * key for the same algorithm raises an error).
  *
  *     SSL_use_cert_and_key(ssl, leaf, pkey, chain, 0);
  *
  * It returns 1 on success, 0 to abort the handshake. */
 static int load_credentials_for_name(SSL *ssl, const char *name);

 static int servername_cb(SSL *ssl, int *al, void *arg)
 {
     APP_CONN *c = SSL_get_ex_data(ssl, app_conn_index);
     const char *sni = SSL_get_servername(ssl, TLSEXT_NAMETYPE_host_name);

     /* Use defaults if no SNI. */
     if (sni == NULL || *sni == '\0')
         return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_NOACK;

     /* Check consistency if called more than once. */
     if (c->peer_sni != NULL) {
         if (strcmp(c->peer_sni, sni) == 0)
             return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_OK;
         *al = SSL_AD_UNRECOGNIZED_NAME;
         return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_FATAL;
     }

     /* Validate the name, possibly raising a fatal alert when the name
      * is invalid or unrecognised, as a defense against DNS-rebinding
      * attacks. */
     if (... the sni name is invalid or unsupported ...) {
         *al = SSL_AD_UNRECOGNIZED_NAME;
         return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_FATAL;
     }

     if ((c->peer_sni = OPENSSL_strdup(sni)) == NULL) {
         *al = SSL_AD_INTERNAL_ERROR;
         return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_ALERT_FATAL;
     }
     return SSL_TLSEXT_ERR_OK;
 }

 static int cert_cb(SSL *ssl, void *arg)
 {
     APP_CONN *c = SSL_get_ex_data(ssl, app_conn_index);

     if (c->peer_sni == NULL)
         return 1;                          /* keep CTX defaults */

     /* Drop credentials inherited from the SSL_CTX so SNI-specific
      * credentials replace them all. */
     SSL_certs_clear(ssl);

     return load_credentials_for_name(ssl, c->peer_sni);
 }

 /* During SSL_CTX setup, on the server side: */
 SSL_CTX_set_tlsext_servername_callback(ctx, servername_cb);

 /* After SSL_new(), before SSL_accept(): */
 SSL_set_ex_data(ssl, app_conn_index, conn);
 SSL_set_cert_cb(ssl, cert_cb, NULL);

The certificate callback can call L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)> multiple times
to install credentials for several public-key algorithms (e.g., RSA and
ECDSA); OpenSSL picks among them based on the peer's signature-algorithm
preferences.  See L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)> and L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>,
L<SSL_set_cert_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_use_cert_and_key(3)>,
L<SSL_set_SSL_CTX(3)>,
L<SSL_certs_clear(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_alpn_select_cb(3)>,
L<SSL_get0_alpn_selected(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_client_hello_cb(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

SSL_get_servername() historically provided some unexpected results in certain
corner cases. This has been fixed from OpenSSL 1.1.1e.

Prior to 1.1.1e, when the client requested a servername in an initial TLSv1.2
handshake, the server accepted it, and then the client successfully resumed but
set a different explicit servername in the second handshake then when called by
the client it returned the servername from the second handshake. This has now
been changed to return the servername requested in the original handshake.

Also prior to 1.1.1e, if the client sent a servername in the first handshake but
the server did not accept it, and then a second handshake occurred where TLSv1.2
resumption was successful then when called by the server it returned the
servername requested in the original handshake. This has now been changed to
NULL.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
