=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_get_current_cipher, tls_get_cipher_name, tls_get_cipher,
tls_get_cipher_bits, tls_get_cipher_version,
tls_get_pending_cipher - get tls_CIPHER of a connection

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 tls_CIPHER *tls_get_current_cipher(const tls *tls);
 tls_CIPHER *tls_get_pending_cipher(const tls *tls);

 const char *tls_get_cipher_name(const tls *s);
 const char *tls_get_cipher(const tls *s);
 int tls_get_cipher_bits(const tls *s, int *np);
 const char *tls_get_cipher_version(const tls *s);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_get_current_cipher() returns a pointer to an tls_CIPHER object containing
the description of the actually used cipher of a connection established with
the B<tls> object.
See L<tls_CIPHER_get_name(3)> for more details.

tls_get_cipher_name() obtains the
name of the currently used cipher.
tls_get_cipher() is identical to tls_get_cipher_name().
tls_get_cipher_bits() is a
macro to obtain the number of secret/algorithm bits used and
tls_get_cipher_version() returns the protocol name.

tls_get_pending_cipher() returns a pointer to an tls_CIPHER object containing
the description of the cipher (if any) that has been negotiated for future use
on the connection established with the B<tls> object, but is not yet in use.
This may be the case during handshake processing, when control flow can be
returned to the application via any of several callback methods.  The internal
sequencing of handshake processing and callback invocation is not guaranteed
to be stable from release to release, and at present only the callback set
by tls_CTX_set_alpn_select_cb() is guaranteed to have a non-NULL return value.
Other callbacks may be added to this list over time.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_get_current_cipher() returns the cipher actually used, or NULL if
no session has been established.

tls_get_pending_cipher() returns the cipher to be used at the next change
of cipher suite, or NULL if no such cipher is known.

=head1 NOTES

tls_get_cipher, tls_get_cipher_bits, tls_get_cipher_version, and
tls_get_cipher_name are implemented as macros.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_CIPHER_get_name(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
