=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_CTX_set_security_level, SSL_set_security_level, SSL_CTX_get_security_level, SSL_get_security_level, SSL_CTX_set_security_callback, SSL_set_security_callback, SSL_CTX_get_security_callback, SSL_get_security_callback, SSL_CTX_set0_security_ex_data, SSL_set0_security_ex_data, SSL_CTX_get0_security_ex_data, SSL_get0_security_ex_data - SSL/TLS security framework

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 void SSL_CTX_set_security_level(SSL_CTX *ctx, int level);
 void SSL_set_security_level(SSL *s, int level);

 int SSL_CTX_get_security_level(const SSL_CTX *ctx);
 int SSL_get_security_level(const SSL *s);

 void SSL_CTX_set_security_callback(SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                    int (*cb)(const SSL *s, const SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                              int op, int bits, int nid,
                                              void *other, void *ex));

 void SSL_set_security_callback(SSL *s,
                                int (*cb)(const SSL *s, const SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                          int op, int bits, int nid,
                                          void *other, void *ex));

 int (*SSL_CTX_get_security_callback(const SSL_CTX *ctx))(const SSL *s,
                                                          const SSL_CTX *ctx,
                                                          int op, int bits,
                                                          int nid, void *other,
                                                          void *ex);
 int (*SSL_get_security_callback(const SSL *s))(const SSL *s,
                                                const SSL_CTX *ctx, int op,
                                                int bits, int nid, void *other,
                                                void *ex);

 void SSL_CTX_set0_security_ex_data(SSL_CTX *ctx, void *ex);
 void SSL_set0_security_ex_data(SSL *s, void *ex);

 void *SSL_CTX_get0_security_ex_data(const SSL_CTX *ctx);
 void *SSL_get0_security_ex_data(const SSL *s);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The functions SSL_CTX_set_security_level() and SSL_set_security_level() set
the security level to B<level>. If not set the library default security level
is used.

The functions SSL_CTX_get_security_level() and SSL_get_security_level()
retrieve the current security level.

SSL_CTX_set_security_callback(), SSL_set_security_callback(),
SSL_CTX_get_security_callback() and SSL_get_security_callback() get or set
the security callback associated with B<ctx> or B<s>. If not set a default
security callback is used. The meaning of the parameters and the behaviour
of the default callbacks is described below.

SSL_CTX_set0_security_ex_data(), SSL_set0_security_ex_data(),
SSL_CTX_get0_security_ex_data() and SSL_get0_security_ex_data() set the
extra data pointer passed to the B<ex> parameter of the callback. This
value is passed to the callback verbatim and can be set to any convenient
application specific value.

=head1 DEFAULT CALLBACK BEHAVIOUR

If an application doesn't set its own security callback the default
callback is used. It is intended to provide sane defaults. The meaning
of each level is described below.

=over 4

=item B<Level 0>

Everything is permitted. This retains compatibility with previous versions of
OpenSSL.

=item B<Level 1>

The security level corresponds to a minimum of 80 bits of security. Any
parameters offering below 80 bits of security are excluded. As a result RSA,
DSA and DH keys shorter than 1024 bits and ECC keys shorter than 160 bits
are prohibited. Any cipher suite using MD5 for the MAC is also prohibited. Any
cipher suites using CCM with a 64 bit authentication tag are prohibited. Note
that signatures using SHA1 and MD5 are also forbidden at this level as they
have less than 80 security bits. Additionally, TLS 1.0, TLS 1.1 and
DTLS 1.0 are all disabled at this level.

=item B<Level 2>

Security level set to 112 bits of security. As a result RSA, DSA and DH keys
shorter than 2048 bits and ECC keys shorter than 224 bits are prohibited.
In addition to the level 1 exclusions any cipher suite using RC4 is also
prohibited. Compression is disabled.

=item B<Level 3>

Security level set to 128 bits of security. As a result RSA, DSA and DH keys
shorter than 3072 bits and ECC keys shorter than 256 bits are prohibited.
In addition to the level 2 exclusions cipher suites not offering forward
secrecy are prohibited. Session tickets are disabled.

=item B<Level 4>

Security level set to 192 bits of security. As a result RSA, DSA and
DH keys shorter than 7680 bits and ECC keys shorter than 384 bits are
prohibited.  Cipher suites using SHA1 for the MAC are prohibited.

=item B<Level 5>

Security level set to 256 bits of security. As a result RSA, DSA and DH keys
shorter than 15360 bits and ECC keys shorter than 512 bits are prohibited.

=back

=head1 APPLICATION DEFINED SECURITY CALLBACKS

An application defined security callback is installed with
SSL_CTX_set_security_callback() or SSL_set_security_callback() and replaces the
default callback. It is consulted whenever the library needs to decide whether
an algorithm, key, parameter or protocol version meets the configured security
level. It should return 1 to permit the operation and 0 to reject it. A
rejected parameter is not advertised or used, as appropriate.

The callback arguments are:

=over 4

=item B<s>, B<ctx>

The B<SSL> or B<SSL_CTX> the check applies to. One of the two is NULL: checks
originating from a connection pass B<s> (with B<ctx> NULL), and checks
originating from a context pass B<ctx> (with B<s> NULL).

=item B<op>

The operation being checked, one of the B<SSL_SECOP_*> values below.

=item B<bits>

The number of bits of security the parameter provides, or 0 when not
meaningful for B<op>.

=item B<nid>

An identifier whose meaning depends on B<op>, or B<NID_undef> when not
applicable.

=item B<other>

A pointer to the object being checked, whose type depends on B<op> as listed
below. It is NULL when no object is associated with the operation.

=item B<ex>

The extra data pointer previously set with SSL_CTX_set0_security_ex_data() or
SSL_set0_security_ex_data(), or NULL.

=back

Several operations have B<_SUPPORTED>, B<_SHARED> and B<_CHECK> variants.
The I<supported> variant checks a parameter before advertising support for it.
The I<shared> variant checks a parameter when selecting from the options
offered by both peers. The I<check> variant checks a parameter the peer has
selected before accepting it.

The defined operations, and the corresponding type of B<other>, are:

=over 4

=item B<SSL_SECOP_CIPHER_SUPPORTED>, B<SSL_SECOP_CIPHER_SHARED>, B<SSL_SECOP_CIPHER_CHECK>

Advertise/select/accept a TLS cipher suite. B<other> is the B<SSL_CIPHER>.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_CURVE_SUPPORTED>, B<SSL_SECOP_CURVE_SHARED>, B<SSL_SECOP_CURVE_CHECK>

Advertise/select/accept a named group used for key exchange, either an elliptic
curve or a finite-field DH group. B<nid> is the group and B<other> points to
its two byte TLS codepoint.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_SIGALG_SUPPORTED>, B<SSL_SECOP_SIGALG_SHARED>, B<SSL_SECOP_SIGALG_CHECK>, B<SSL_SECOP_SIGALG_MASK>

Advertise/select/accept a signature algorithm used in the handshake;
B<SSL_SECOP_SIGALG_MASK> is used when building the mask of permitted signature
algorithms. B<nid> is its hash and B<other> points to its two byte TLS
codepoint.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_VERSION>

Negotiate a protocol version. B<nid> is the version, for example
B<TLS1_2_VERSION>, and B<other> is NULL.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_TMP_DH>

Use an ephemeral DH key. B<other> is the B<EVP_PKEY>.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_EE_KEY>, B<SSL_SECOP_CA_KEY>

Accept an end entity or CA certificate public key. B<other> is the B<X509>
certificate.

=item B<SSL_SECOP_TICKET>, B<SSL_SECOP_COMPRESSION>

Issue or accept a session ticket, or enable record compression. B<other>
is NULL.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The default security level can be configured when OpenSSL is compiled by
setting B<-DOPENSSL_TLS_SECURITY_LEVEL=level>. If not set then 2 is used.

The security framework disables or reject parameters inconsistent with the
set security level. In the past this was difficult as applications had to set
a number of distinct parameters (supported ciphers, supported curves supported
signature algorithms) to achieve this end and some cases (DH parameter size
for example) could not be checked at all.

By setting an appropriate security level much of this complexity can be
avoided.

The bits of security limits affect all relevant parameters including
cipher suite encryption algorithms, supported ECC curves, supported
signature algorithms, DH parameter sizes, certificate key sizes and
signature algorithms. This limit applies no matter what other custom
settings an application has set: so if the cipher suite is set to B<ALL>
then only cipher suites consistent with the security level are permissible.

See SP800-57 for how the security limits are related to individual
algorithms.

Some security levels require large key sizes for non-ECC public key
algorithms which can severely degrade performance. For example 256 bits
of security requires the use of RSA keys of at least 15360 bits in size.

Some restrictions can be gracefully handled: for example cipher suites
offering insufficient security are not sent by the client and will not
be selected by the server. Other restrictions such as the peer certificate
key size or the DH parameter size will abort the handshake with a fatal
alert.

Attempts to set certificates or parameters with insufficient security are
also blocked. For example trying to set a certificate using a 512 bit RSA key
or a certificate with a signature with SHA1 digest at level 1 using
SSL_CTX_use_certificate(). Applications which do not check the return values
for errors will misbehave: for example it might appear that a certificate is
not set at all because it had been rejected.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_CTX_set_security_level() and SSL_set_security_level() do not return values.

SSL_CTX_get_security_level() and SSL_get_security_level() return a integer that
represents the security level with B<SSL_CTX> or B<SSL>, respectively.

SSL_CTX_set_security_callback() and SSL_set_security_callback() do not return
values.

SSL_CTX_get_security_callback() and SSL_get_security_callback() return the pointer
to the security callback or NULL if the callback is not set.

SSL_CTX_get0_security_ex_data() and SSL_get0_security_ex_data() return the extra
data pointer or NULL if the ex data is not set.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
