=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_COMP_add_compression_method, SSL_COMP_get_compression_methods,
SSL_COMP_get0_name, SSL_COMP_get_id, SSL_COMP_free_compression_methods,
SSL_get_current_compression, SSL_get_current_expansion
- handle SSL/TLS integrated compression methods (obsolete in OpenSSL 5.0)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 int SSL_COMP_add_compression_method(int id, COMP_METHOD *cm);
 STACK_OF(SSL_COMP) *SSL_COMP_get_compression_methods(void);
 const char *SSL_COMP_get0_name(const SSL_COMP *comp);
 int SSL_COMP_get_id(const SSL_COMP *comp);
 const COMP_METHOD *SSL_get_current_compression(const SSL *s);
 const COMP_METHOD *SSL_get_current_expansion(const SSL *s);

The following function has been deprecated since OpenSSL 1.1.0, and can be
hidden entirely by defining B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version value,
see L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 void SSL_COMP_free_compression_methods(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_COMP_add_compression_method() adds the compression method B<cm> with
the identifier B<id> to the list of available compression methods. This
list is globally maintained for all SSL operations within this application.
It cannot be set for specific SSL_CTX or SSL objects.

SSL_COMP_get_compression_methods() returns a stack of all of the available
compression methods or NULL on error.

SSL_COMP_get0_name() returns the name of the compression method B<comp>.

SSL_COMP_get_id() returns the id of the compression method B<comp>.

SSL_COMP_free_compression_methods() releases any resources acquired to
maintain the internal table of compression methods.

SSL_get_current_compression() and SSL_get_current_expansion() return the
compression or expansion method in use for the connection, or NULL if none.
As of OpenSSL 5.0 they always return NULL (TLS record compression was removed).

=head1 NOTES

As of OpenSSL 5.0, TLS record compression has been removed (CRIME hardening).
The functions documented here no longer affect TLS handshake or record layer
behavior; the library always negotiates and uses the null compression method
only. These APIs are retained for compatibility. Certificate compression
(RFC 8879) is separate and unaffected.

In earlier versions: The TLS standard (or SSLv3) allows the integration of
compression methods into the communication. The TLS RFC does however not specify
compression methods or their corresponding identifiers, so there is no
compatible way to integrate compression with unknown peers. TLS record
compression is not recommended (security level 2 or above disables it).

An OpenSSL client speaking a protocol that allowed compression (SSLv3, TLSv1)
would send the list of compression methods enabled with
SSL_COMP_add_compression_method() to the server during the handshake. An
OpenSSL server would match the identifiers listed by a client against its own
compression methods. There was no method to restrict the list on a per
connection basis.

If enabled during compilation, the OpenSSL library will have the
following compression methods available:

=over 4

=item COMP_zlib()

=item COMP_brotli()

=item COMP_brotli_oneshot()

=item COMP_zstd()

=item COMP_zstd_oneshot()

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_COMP_add_compression_method() may return the following values:

=over 4

=item Z<>0

The operation succeeded.

=item Z<>1

The operation failed. Check the error queue to find out the reason.

=back

SSL_COMP_get_compression_methods() returns the stack of compressions methods or
NULL on error.

SSL_COMP_get0_name() returns the name of the compression method or NULL on error.

SSL_COMP_get_id() returns the id of the compression method or -1 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

TLS record compression was removed in OpenSSL 5.0; these functions no longer
affect TLS behavior. The SSL_COMP_free_compression_methods() function was
deprecated in OpenSSL 1.1.0. The SSL_COMP_get0_name() and SSL_comp_get_id()
functions were added in OpenSSL 1.1.0d.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
