=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_get0_param, tls_get0_param, tls_CTX_set1_param, tls_set1_param -
get and set verification parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 X509_VERIFY_PARAM *tls_CTX_get0_param(tls_CTX *ctx)
 X509_VERIFY_PARAM *tls_get0_param(tls *tls)
 int tls_CTX_set1_param(tls_CTX *ctx, X509_VERIFY_PARAM *vpm)
 int tls_set1_param(tls *tls, X509_VERIFY_PARAM *vpm)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_get0_param() and tls_get0_param() retrieve an internal pointer to
the verification parameters for B<ctx> or B<tls> respectively. The returned
pointer must not be freed by the calling application.

tls_CTX_set1_param() and tls_set1_param() set the verification parameters
to B<vpm> for B<ctx> or B<tls>.

=head1 NOTES

Typically parameters are retrieved from an B<tls_CTX> or B<tls> structure
using tls_CTX_get0_param() or tls_get0_param() and an application modifies
them to suit its needs: for example to add a hostname check.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CTX_get0_param() and tls_get0_param() return a pointer to an
B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> structure.

tls_CTX_set1_param() and tls_set1_param() return 1 for success and 0
for failure.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Check hostname matches "www.foo.com" in peer certificate:

 X509_VERIFY_PARAM *vpm = tls_get0_param(tls);
 X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(vpm, "www.foo.com", 0);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were added in Opentls 1.0.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
