=pod

=head1 NAME

tls_CTX_set_quiet_shutdown, tls_CTX_get_quiet_shutdown, tls_set_quiet_shutdown, tls_get_quiet_shutdown - manipulate shutdown behaviour

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <opentls/tls.h>

 void tls_CTX_set_quiet_shutdown(tls_CTX *ctx, int mode);
 int tls_CTX_get_quiet_shutdown(const tls_CTX *ctx);

 void tls_set_quiet_shutdown(tls *tls, int mode);
 int tls_get_quiet_shutdown(const tls *tls);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tls_CTX_set_quiet_shutdown() sets the "quiet shutdown" flag for B<ctx> to be
B<mode>. tls objects created from B<ctx> inherit the B<mode> valid at the time
L<tls_new(3)> is called. B<mode> may be 0 or 1.

tls_CTX_get_quiet_shutdown() returns the "quiet shutdown" setting of B<ctx>.

tls_set_quiet_shutdown() sets the "quiet shutdown" flag for B<tls> to be
B<mode>. The setting stays valid until B<tls> is removed with
L<tls_free(3)> or tls_set_quiet_shutdown() is called again.
It is not changed when L<tls_clear(3)> is called.
B<mode> may be 0 or 1.

tls_get_quiet_shutdown() returns the "quiet shutdown" setting of B<tls>.

=head1 NOTES

Normally when a tls connection is finished, the parties must send out
close_notify alert messages using L<tls_shutdown(3)>
for a clean shutdown.

When setting the "quiet shutdown" flag to 1, L<tls_shutdown(3)>
will set the internal flags to tls_SENT_SHUTDOWN|tls_RECEIVED_SHUTDOWN.
(L<tls_shutdown(3)> then behaves like
L<tls_set_shutdown(3)> called with
tls_SENT_SHUTDOWN|tls_RECEIVED_SHUTDOWN.)
The session is thus considered to be shutdown, but no close_notify alert
is sent to the peer. This behaviour violates the TLS standard.

The default is normal shutdown behaviour as described by the TLS standard.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

tls_CTX_set_quiet_shutdown() and tls_set_quiet_shutdown() do not return
diagnostic information.

tls_CTX_get_quiet_shutdown() and tls_get_quiet_shutdown return the current
setting.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tls(7)>, L<tls_shutdown(3)>,
L<tls_set_shutdown(3)>, L<tls_new(3)>,
L<tls_clear(3)>, L<tls_free(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2018 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
