=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_EXT_print, X509V3_EXT_print_fp, X509V3_extensions_print,
X509V3_EXT_val_prn - X509 extension printing functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509V3_EXT_print(BIO *out, X509_EXTENSION *ext,
                      unsigned long flag, int indent);
 int X509V3_EXT_print_fp(FILE *out, X509_EXTENSION *ext,
                         int flag, int indent);
 int X509V3_extensions_print(BIO *out, const char *title,
                             const STACK_OF(X509_EXTENSION) *exts,
                             unsigned long flag, int indent);
 void X509V3_EXT_val_prn(BIO *out, STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) *val,
                         int indent, int ml);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_EXT_print() prints the extension I<ext> to the BIO I<out>.
The I<flag> argument controls the display of unknown or unparsable extensions.
The I<indent> argument specifies the number of spaces to indent the output.
If the extension is supported and can be parsed, its contents are printed
in a human-readable form. If parsing fails or the extension is unknown,
the behaviour depends on I<flag>:

=over 4

=item B<X509V3_EXT_DEFAULT>

Return 0 (failure) for unknown or unparsable extensions.

=item B<X509V3_EXT_ERROR_UNKNOWN>

Print "<Parse Error>" for known but unparsable extensions and
"<Not Supported>" for unknown extensions, and return 1.

=item B<X509V3_EXT_PARSE_UNKNOWN>

Attempt to parse and dump the raw ASN.1 data of the extension.

=item B<X509V3_EXT_DUMP_UNKNOWN>

Print a hex dump of the extension data.

=back

These flags are defined in the B<X509V3_EXT_UNKNOWN_MASK> (C<0xfL << 16>)
bits of I<flag>.

X509V3_EXT_print_fp() is identical to X509V3_EXT_print() except it prints
to a B<FILE> pointer instead of a B<BIO>.
This function is not available if B<OPENSSL_NO_STDIO> is defined.

X509V3_extensions_print() prints all extensions in the stack I<exts>
to the BIO I<out>. If I<title> is not NULL, it is printed as a heading.
Each extension is printed with its OID name and critical flag, followed
by its contents as formatted by X509V3_EXT_print(). If an extension cannot
be printed, its raw data is output instead. The I<flag> and I<indent>
arguments are passed through to X509V3_EXT_print().

X509V3_EXT_val_prn() prints a stack of B<CONF_VALUE> structures to the
BIO I<out>. This is a helper function used internally by X509V3_EXT_print()
for extensions that use the I<i2v> method. If I<ml> is nonzero, each
name-value pair is printed on a separate line with I<indent> spaces of
indentation. Otherwise, the values are printed on a single line separated
by commas.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_EXT_print() returns 1 on success and 0 if the extension could not
be printed.

X509V3_EXT_print_fp() returns 1 on success and 0 on error.

X509V3_extensions_print() returns 1 on success and 0 on error.

X509V3_EXT_val_prn() does not return a value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<X509V3_EXT_nconf(3)>,
L<X509_get_extension_flags(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.7.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
