=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_parse_list - parse a comma-separated list into CONF_VALUE entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) *X509V3_parse_list(const char *line);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_parse_list() parses the string I<line> as a comma-separated list
of names and name-value pairs and returns the result as a
B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)>.

The input format supports both bare names and name:value pairs. For example,
the string:

 "foo,bar:baz,qux"

would produce three B<CONF_VALUE> entries: one with I<name> "foo" and
I<value> NULL, one with I<name> "bar" and I<value> "baz", and one with
I<name> "qux" and I<value> NULL.

Leading and trailing whitespace is stripped from both names and values.

This function is used internally by the extension generation code to parse
multi-valued extension strings. It can also be used by custom extension
B<v2i> implementations.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_parse_list() returns a B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)> on success or NULL
on error. The returned stack and its contents should be freed using
sk_CONF_VALUE_pop_free() with L<X509V3_conf_free(3)> as the free function.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_add_value(3)>,
L<X509V3_EXT_add(3)>,
L<x509v3_config(5)>

=head1 HISTORY

This function has been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
