=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_verify_cert,
X509_STORE_CTX_verify,
X509_build_chain - build and verify X509 certificate chain

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 int X509_verify_cert(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);
 int X509_STORE_CTX_verify(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);
 STACK_OF(X509) *X509_build_chain(X509 *target, STACK_OF(X509) *certs,
                                  X509_STORE *store, int with_self_signed,
                                  OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx, const char *propq);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 X509_verify_cert and X509_STORE_CTX_verify

X509_verify_cert() attempts to build and validate a certificate chain for the
target certificate set in I<ctx>. The verification context, of type
B<X509_STORE_CTX>, must first be constructed with L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)> and
initialised with L<X509_STORE_CTX_init(3)>. It carries the target certificate,
the trust store, an optional stack of untrusted certificates that may assist
chain construction, verification parameters such as flags and a verification
purpose, an optional verification callback, and, after a call, the verification
outcome.

A B<X509_STORE_CTX> can be used for only one verification. Calling
X509_verify_cert() a second time on the same context without reinitialising it
fails with a negative return value, and L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>
subsequently returns B<X509_V_ERR_INVALID_CALL>.

When the target is a certificate, the function performs the following steps in
order. The first step that fails aborts verification, except where a
verification callback explicitly waives the error (see
L</THE VERIFICATION CALLBACK> below):

=over 4

=item 1.

B<Chain construction.> Starting from the target certificate, the verification
machinery seeks an issuer for the certificate currently at the top of the
chain, drawing candidates from I<ctx>'s untrusted stack and from the trust
store. By default the search is untrusted-first: the untrusted stack is
examined before the trust store. Setting B<X509_V_FLAG_TRUSTED_FIRST> on
I<ctx>'s verification parameters reverses this. When an untrusted-first
search fails to reach a trust anchor and B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_ALT_CHAINS> is not
set, the search is retried with progressively shorter untrusted prefixes in
an attempt to find an alternative trusted path. The chain length is bounded
by the configured depth limit (see L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth(3)>);
exceeding it yields B<X509_V_ERR_CERT_CHAIN_TOO_LONG>. If more than one
chain is possible, only one is taken.

Failure to build a chain to a trust anchor yields an error such as
B<X509_V_ERR_UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT>,
B<X509_V_ERR_UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT_LOCALLY>,
B<X509_V_ERR_SELF_SIGNED_CERT_IN_CHAIN>,
B<X509_V_ERR_DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT>, or
B<X509_V_ERR_CERT_CHAIN_TOO_LONG>.

=item 2.

B<Certificate extension validation> per RFC 5280, including basic constraints,
key usage and the verification purpose set via
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose(3)>.

=item 3.

B<Security level checks> against the configured authentication level, covering
issuer key sizes (B<X509_V_ERR_CA_KEY_TOO_SMALL>) and signature algorithm
strength (B<X509_V_ERR_CA_MD_TOO_WEAK>). The leaf key is checked separately
before chain construction begins (B<X509_V_ERR_EE_KEY_TOO_SMALL>).

=item 4.

B<Identity checks> against any hostnames, email addresses or IP addresses
configured on the verification parameters
(L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(3)> and related).

=item 5.

B<Revocation checks> via CRLs and, when configured, OCSP. The set of checks
performed is controlled by flags such as B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK> and
B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK_ALL>.

=item 6.

B<Signature and validity period checks> on every certificate in the chain,
walking from the trust anchor down to the target. The signature on the
chain's terminating certificate is not verified: trust is taken from its
presence in the trust store rather than from its signature. This applies
both to a conventional self-signed trust anchor and, when
B<X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN> is in effect, to a non-self-signed
intermediate promoted to anchor status. B<X509_V_FLAG_CHECK_SS_SIGNATURE>
requests that the self-signature on a self-signed terminator be verified;
it has no effect when the terminator is a non-self-signed certificate.
Validity periods are checked on every certificate, including the
terminator.

=item 7.

B<Name constraint validation> per RFC 5280 section 4.2.1.10.

=item 8.

B<RFC 3779 path validation> of AS-number and IP-address delegation
extensions, performed by default unless OpenSSL was built with
B<no-rfc3779>.

=item 9.

B<Certificate policy validation>, performed only when
B<X509_V_FLAG_POLICY_CHECK> is set.

=back

Several B<X509_V_FLAG_*> values modify the behaviour of these checks;
representative ones are named at the relevant step above, but the list there
is not exhaustive. The complete set of verification flags, the effect each
one has, and the functions used to query and modify them are documented in
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(3)>.

Applications rarely call X509_verify_cert() directly. It is invoked internally
by OpenSSL during S/MIME and CMS verification and during the TLS handshake.

X509_STORE_CTX_verify() behaves identically to X509_verify_cert() except for
the selection of the target certificate: if no target has been set on I<ctx>
(see L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_cert(3)>) and the untrusted stack is nonempty, the
first certificate in the untrusted stack is adopted as the target before
verification begins. If a target was set explicitly, X509_STORE_CTX_verify()
uses it and does not consult the untrusted stack for this purpose.

=head2 Raw public key targets

When the verification target is a raw public key rather than a certificate
(set via L<X509_STORE_CTX_init_rpk(3)>), both functions validate the raw public
key instead of a certificate chain. The set of possible checks is significantly
reduced: there are no extensions, names, CRLs or signatures to verify. The raw
public key can be authenticated only via DANE TLSA records, either locally
synthesised or obtained by the application from DNS. Raw public key DANE TLSA
records may be added via L<SSL_add_expected_rpk(3)> or L<SSL_dane_tlsa_add(3)>.

=head2 X509_build_chain

X509_build_chain() builds a certificate chain starting from I<target>, using
the same chain-construction algorithm as X509_verify_cert() (see
L</X509_verify_cert and X509_STORE_CTX_verify> above). It internally uses a
B<X509_STORE_CTX> structure associated with the library context I<libctx>
and property query string I<propq>, both of which may be NULL. The role of
I<certs> depends on I<store>:

=over 4

=item *

If I<store> is non-NULL, I<certs> is treated as an optional list of
B<untrusted> intermediate certificates that may help complete the chain, and
the chain must reach a trust anchor contained in I<store>. If no chain to a
trust anchor can be built, the function fails and returns NULL.

=item *

If I<store> is NULL, I<certs> is installed as the B<trusted> stack for the
internal context (see L<X509_STORE_CTX_set0_trusted_stack(3)>). In this mode
the function builds the chain as far as it can but does not require it to
reach an anchor: if chain construction fails partway, the partial chain built
so far is still returned.

=back

Because the internal B<X509_STORE_CTX> is allocated and freed inside
X509_build_chain(), search-policy flags such as B<X509_V_FLAG_TRUSTED_FIRST>
and B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_ALT_CHAINS> and the configured depth limit always take
their default values, and the specific B<X509_V_ERR_*> code that caused
chain construction to fail is not reported back: the function signals only
success or failure through its return value (and, when I<store> is NULL, may
also return a partial chain).

On success the returned stack starts with a newly up-referenced I<target>
followed by the issuer certificates that were found. A self-signed certificate
at the top of the chain is included in the returned stack when either
I<with_self_signed> is 1, or the chain consists solely of I<target> (for
example because I<target> itself is self-signed or no further issuer could
be found). When the chain has more than one element and I<with_self_signed>
is 0, the self-signed top is omitted from the result.

The caller is responsible for freeing the returned stack.

=head1 THE VERIFICATION CALLBACK

Each B<X509_STORE_CTX> carries a I<verification callback> with the signature

 int (*verify_cb)(int ok, X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);

This callback is invoked by X509_verify_cert() and X509_STORE_CTX_verify()
at multiple points during verification, both to B<report errors> and to
B<notify of progress>. It is installed by L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_verify_cb(3)>
on the context, or it is inherited at L<X509_STORE_CTX_init(3)> time from
the B<X509_STORE> (see L<X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func(3)>). If neither has
been set, a default callback is used which simply returns its I<ok> argument
unchanged, causing every error to abort verification.

=head2 When the callback is called

There are two distinct invocation patterns:

=over 4

=item B<Error notification> (I<ok> = 0)

The callback is called with I<ok> set to 0 each time a check fails. Before the
call, the verification machinery records the B<X509_V_ERR_*> code describing
the failure on I<ctx>, and for certificate-level errors also records the
depth at which the error was detected and the certificate in question. The
callback inspects these via L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error_depth(3)>, and L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_current_cert(3)>.
CRL- and OCSP-related errors update only the error code; the depth and
current certificate retain their values from a preceding context.

=item B<Per-certificate success notification> (I<ok> = 1)

During the signature-and-validity pass, after each certificate in the chain
has been checked successfully, the callback is called with I<ok> set to 1.
The current certificate, current issuer, and error depth (queryable
respectively via L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_current_cert(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get0_current_issuer(3)>, and
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error_depth(3)>) describe the certificate that has just
been accepted. The callback may use this to log progress, but B<must> return
a nonzero value, otherwise verification is aborted.

=back

The callback's return value controls subsequent verification:

=over 4

=item *

A nonzero return value causes verification to B<continue>. For an error
notification this constitutes B<waiving> the error.

=item *

A zero return value causes verification to B<abort> immediately. The function
returns 0 to its caller in this case, regardless of whether the callback was
invoked with I<ok> = 0 or I<ok> = 1.

=back

=head2 Sticky errors

When the callback waives an error by returning nonzero, the underlying check is
treated as passed for control-flow purposes, but the error code recorded on
I<ctx> is B<not> reset to B<X509_V_OK>. A subsequent successful return from
X509_verify_cert() therefore does B<not> imply that
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> will return B<X509_V_OK>: it may still hold
the last error code that was waived. This is intentional. Only the callback
itself is permitted to overwrite the error code, via
L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_error(3)>, and only at its own risk.

=head2 Dangers

A verification callback that returns nonzero on an error notification has, by
definition, suppressed an authentication check that OpenSSL considered
necessary. Callers should treat installing a callback that waives errors as a
deliberate weakening of the security guarantees of X509_verify_cert(), to be
done only for specific, well-understood error codes. The following pitfalls are
common:

=over 4

=item *

B<Blanket waivers>. A callback that returns 1 unconditionally turns
X509_verify_cert() into "accept anything" and is almost always wrong outside of
diagnostics. Inspect the error code via L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> and
waive only the specific codes you intend to.

=item *

B<Failing a success notification>. Because the callback is also called with
I<ok> = 1, a callback that mistakenly returns 0 in that case causes
verification to fail even though every check passed. The caller cannot
distinguish this from a genuine failure based on the return value alone.

=item *

B<Clearing the error code>. The sticky-error rule exists so that a waived
error remains visible to the caller after verification returns. A callback
that calls L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_error(3)> with B<X509_V_OK> hides this
information and can also mask a later error if the callback is invoked again
before verification completes.

=item *

B<Mutating the verification context>. The B<X509_STORE_CTX> is live during
the callback: the verification routines are actively reading its chain,
parameters, and other state. Calling context-mutating functions from within
the callback -- for example, replacing the verified chain via
L<X509_STORE_CTX_set0_verified_chain(3)>, swapping the trust store or
untrusted stack, or changing verification flags, depth, purpose, or target
-- can corrupt the in-progress verification, produce inconsistent behaviour
between later steps of the pipeline, or, in the case of the verified chain,
cause use-after-free. The only mutators reasonable from within a callback
are the error-related setters (L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_error(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_error_depth(3)>, L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_current_cert(3)>),
and even those should be used sparingly (see L</Sticky errors>).

=item *

B<Heavy work in the callback>. The callback is on the hot path of every
certificate check; expensive work performed there will slow every TLS handshake
or S/MIME verification that uses the surrounding context.

=item *

B<Trusting the depth alone>. The error depth, from
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error_depth(3)>, records where an error was detected
during chain processing, not the position of the certificate in the final
chain. Always consult L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_current_cert(3)> in addition to
the depth when deciding whether to waive.

=item *

B<Fragility with respect to check order>. The set of errors the callback
observes, and the order in which it observes them, depends on the internal
order in which verification checks are performed. When a certificate has more
than one problem, only the first check to detect a problem causes the
callback to be invoked for that certificate; later checks are not reached
unless the callback waives the earlier error. This ordering is an
implementation detail and is not part of the stable API: a refactor that
reorders internal checks without altering the binary success/failure contract
of X509_verify_cert() may still change which B<X509_V_ERR_*> code the
callback sees, or whether a given code is reported at all. Callbacks that
branch on a specific error code being reported, or that assume earlier checks
have already filtered out certain conditions, can therefore change behaviour
silently across OpenSSL releases. Write callbacks defensively: re-fetch the
error code and the current certificate via L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>
and L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_current_cert(3)> afresh on each invocation, and
treat "this error code never appears" as an assumption that may be
invalidated. More fundamentally, because the set and order of error
notifications is not a stable contract, the callback cannot be relied upon to
observe any particular condition or sequence of conditions; that makes it an
unsound mechanism for enforcing or modifying security policy. Use of the
verification callback to alter verification outcomes -- to waive errors, to
inject conditional acceptance, or to gate behaviour on a specific
B<X509_V_ERR_*> code being reported -- is therefore discouraged in production
code. Reserve the callback for diagnostic and logging purposes, where future
changes in which errors appear, or in what order, are not security-relevant.

=back

The default callback waives nothing and is the safe choice; it is the right
behaviour for almost all production uses.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_verify_cert() and X509_STORE_CTX_verify() return:

=over 4

=item B<1>

if a complete chain has been built and every check either succeeded or was
waived by the verification callback. Note that the latter case does not
guarantee that L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> returns B<X509_V_OK>; see
L</Sticky errors>. The return value is the authoritative success/failure
signal: callers do not need to additionally check that
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> returns B<X509_V_OK> to consider verification
successful. They may consult it to learn whether, and which, errors were
waived by the verification callback.

=item B<0>

if verification was rejected. This occurs when a check failed and the callback
did not waive the error, when a trust decision actively rejected the chain, or
when the verification callback returned 0 from a success notification (see
L</THE VERIFICATION CALLBACK>). When a certificate would have failed more
than one check, the specific B<X509_V_ERR_*> code returned by
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> reflects whichever check fired first; this
ordering is an implementation detail and is not stable across releases.
Callers must therefore treat the return value as the authoritative
success/failure signal, and treat the specific error code as diagnostic
information that may shift over time.

=item A B<negative> value

on a hard error that prevented verification from running to completion. The
documented cases are: I<ctx> is NULL; I<ctx> has no target certificate set;
I<ctx> has already been used for a previous verification; memory allocation
failed; the trust store lookup function returned an error; or an internal
invariant was violated. In these cases L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>
returns an appropriate B<X509_V_ERR_*> value (B<X509_V_ERR_INVALID_CALL>,
B<X509_V_ERR_OUT_OF_MEM>, B<X509_V_ERR_STORE_LOOKUP> or
B<X509_V_ERR_UNSPECIFIED>).

=back

In all failure modes, additional information can be obtained from
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)> and the related accessors. Applications must
treat any return value E<lt>= 0 as verification not having succeeded.

X509_build_chain() returns NULL on error. Otherwise it returns a newly
allocated stack of certificates that the caller must free; the stack may
represent only a partial chain when I<store> is NULL.

=head1 BUGS

Several aspects of chain construction depart from the recommendations of
RFC 4158 (Certification Path Building) and from strict RFC 5280 path
validation. Callers should be aware of the following:

The chain search is not optimised in the manner described by RFC 4158
sections 3.1 to 3.5. Candidate issuers are not scored against the set of
heuristics RFC 4158 recommends; at each step the first viable candidate
is committed to, with the only preference being for a candidate whose
validity period covers the current time. There is no tree-traversal
backtracking: when an initial chain does not reach a trust anchor, the
search is retried with progressively shorter untrusted prefixes (unless
B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_ALT_CHAINS> is set), but different candidate issuers at
intermediate positions of the same chain are not tried. In simple
hierarchical PKIs this is rarely an issue. In cross-certified or bridged
PKI environments X509_verify_cert() may fail to find a valid certification
path even when one demonstrably exists in the available certificate set.

Issuer key usage is not enforced during chain construction. RFC 5280
section 6.1.4(n) and RFC 4158 section 3.5.3 call for verifying that an
issuer candidate's keyUsage extension permits certificate signing
(B<keyCertSign>) before that candidate is selected. OpenSSL defers this
check to the later extension-validation pass: if two candidate issuers
exist for a certificate, and the one lacking B<keyCertSign> happens to be
selected first, verification fails on the extension check rather than
backing off and trying the other candidate. The misuse is ultimately
caught, but a chain that would have validated through the alternative
issuer is not built.

B<X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN> relaxes the trust-anchor requirement from
the one defined by RFC 5280 section 6.1.1(d). With the flag set, any
certificate in the trust store is acceptable as the terminator of the
chain, even if it is not a self-signed root. This is an intentional and
now-common deviation that supports modern practices such as pinning trust
to a specific intermediate, or shortening chains by treating a
sufficiently-trusted intermediate as the trust point and eliding the root
above it. Callers should nevertheless be aware that the chain returned in
this mode does not necessarily terminate at an RFC 5280-style trust
anchor.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SSL_add_expected_rpk(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_dane_enable(3)>,
L<SSL_dane_tlsa_add(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_init(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_init_rpk(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_error(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_set_verify_cb(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

X509_build_chain() and X509_STORE_CTX_verify() were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009-2023 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
