=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_email,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_rfc822,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_smtputf8,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get1_ip_asc,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822_input_validation,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8_input_validation,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_input_validation
- X509 verification reference identifier configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                    const char *name, size_t namelen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                    const char *name, size_t namelen);
 char *X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param, int n);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                               const char *name, size_t namelen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                               const char *name, size_t namelen);

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                  const char *email, size_t emaillen);
 char *X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_email(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   const char *email, size_t emaillen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_rfc822(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   const char *email, size_t emaillen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                     const char *email, size_t emaillen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_smtputf8(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                     const char *email, size_t emaillen);

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                               const unsigned char *ip, size_t iplen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                               const unsigned char *ip, size_t iplen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   const char *ip_asc);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   const char *ip_asc);
 char *X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get1_ip_asc(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_dnsname)(const char *name, size_t len));
 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_rfc822)(const char *name, size_t len));
 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_smtputf8)(const char *name, size_t len));
 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_cn)(const char *name, size_t len));
 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_ip)(const uint8_t *name, size_t len));

The following functions have been deprecated since OpenSSL 4.1, and can be
hidden entirely by defining B<OPENSSL_API_COMPAT> with a suitable version
value, see L<openssl_user_macros(7)>:

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                 const char *name, size_t namelen);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                 const char *name, size_t namelen);
 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
     int (*validate_host)(const char *name, size_t len));

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions configure the set of B<reference identifiers> that an
B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> will match against the names asserted by a peer's
certificate during certificate verification. Five families of reference
identifier are supported, each matched against a distinct location in the
certificate:

=over 4

=item *

B<DNS hostnames>, matched against B<dNSName> entries in the certificate's
subject alternative name (SAN) extension.

=item *

B<commonName values>, matched against the B<commonName> attribute of the
certificate's subject distinguished name. The commonName list is separate
from the DNS hostname list above; it is not automatically populated from
the dnsname configuration and must be set explicitly when commonName
matching is desired.

=item *

B<RFC 822 email addresses>, matched against B<rfc822Name> entries in the
certificate's SAN.

=item *

B<SMTPUTF8 email addresses>, matched against B<otherName> entries of type
B<id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox> (RFC 8398) in the certificate's SAN.

=item *

B<IP addresses>, matched against B<iPAddress> entries in the certificate's
SAN.

=back

For each family the C<set1_> form clears any previously configured values
and installs I<value> as the sole reference identifier, and the C<add1_>
form appends I<value> to the existing list. When a list contains more than
one entry, the certificate is considered to match if any of the configured
values matches a corresponding name in the certificate.

For the functions whose value is a string with an explicit length (the
hostname, commonName, and email families), if the length argument is zero
the value must be NUL-terminated; otherwise the length argument must be the
length of the value in bytes.

For the C<set1_> functions, passing NULL or the empty string clears the
list and disables matching of that name type. For the C<add1_> functions,
passing NULL or the empty string is rejected as an error.

=head2 DNS hostname matching

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname() sets in I<param> the expected DNS hostname
to I<name>, for matching against B<dNSName> SAN entries in the peer's
certificate, clearing any previously specified dnsname.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname() adds I<name> as an additional reference
identifier that can match a B<dNSName> SAN entry in the peer's certificate.
Any previous names set via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname() or
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname() are retained.

These functions match only against B<dNSName> SAN entries; they do not
fall back to the certificate's subject distinguished name. To match
against the certificate's commonName attribute, configure the commonName
list separately via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn().

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host() returns the I<n>th DNS hostname previously
configured on I<param> via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname(), or the deprecated
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host() / X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(), or NULL if
I<n> is out of range. To iterate over the configured names, start with
I<n> = 0 and increment I<n> until the function returns NULL. The returned
string is owned by the library and remains valid until I<param> is
modified or freed; the caller must not free it.

Matching is governed by the B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_*> host flags; see
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags(3)> for the available flags and their
effect on wildcards. The names by which the peer matched can be retrieved
via L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_peername(3)>.

=head2 CommonName matching

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() sets in I<param> the expected commonName value
to I<name>, clearing any previously specified commonName. The commonName
list is a separate set of reference identifiers from the dnsname list set
via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(): the dnsname list is matched against
B<dNSName> entries in the certificate's subject alternative name extension,
while the commonName list is matched against the value of the commonName
attribute of the certificate's subject distinguished name.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn() adds I<name> as an additional reference
identifier that can match the commonName attribute of the peer
certificate's subject distinguished name. Any previous names set via
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() or X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn() are retained.

Before storing I<name>, both X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn() validate it. By default they require that
I<name> be no longer than 64 bytes, which is the X.509 maximum length for
the value of a commonName attribute. This default validation can be
overridden by installing a callback via
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation().

=head2 Legacy host matching (deprecated)

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host() sets in I<param> the expected name to
I<name>, clearing any previously specified host name.
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host() adds I<name> to the existing list. These
functions retain the pre-4.1 SAN-then-CN-fallback semantics: I<name> is
matched against the certificate's B<dNSName> SAN entries first, and if no
SAN match is found (and B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NEVER_CHECK_SUBJECT> is not set
in the host flags), the matcher falls back to the B<commonName> attribute
of the subject distinguished name.

These functions are deprecated in favour of the explicit
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname() and X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() families,
which match SAN dNSName entries and commonName attributes separately. New
code should configure the two name types explicitly and is encouraged not
to match against commonName at all in modern Web PKI contexts; see RFC 9525.

=head2 Mutual exclusion between the legacy and explicit families

On any given B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM>, the legacy host family
(X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation()) is mutually exclusive with
the explicit dnsname/cn family (X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation()). The first call to any
function in one family locks the parameter to that family; any later call
to a function in the other family returns 0 and raises
B<X509_R_INVALID_IDENTIFIER_API>.

The choice is sticky. Clearing the configured list with
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(I<param>, NULL, 0),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(I<param>, NULL, 0), or
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn(I<param>, NULL, 0) empties the list but does
B<not> reset the family. A parameter returned by
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_new() starts in the neutral state and accepts the first
call from either family.

=head2 Email matching

The C<_rfc822()> family of functions is used for email names that have
ASCII localpart addresses, in which case the domain part of the address
must be represented in A-label form. They are used to specify the list of
values to match against the SAN B<rfc822Name> entries in certificates.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822() clears all expected RFC 822 email
addresses, and sets the expected RFC 822 email address to I<email> for
matching against B<rfc822Name> SAN entries in the peer's certificate.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_rfc822() adds I<email> as an additional reference
identifier that can match a B<rfc822Name> SAN entry in the peer's
certificate. Any previous names set via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_rfc822(), or X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email() are
retained on success; no change is made on failure.

The C<_smtputf8()> family of functions is used for email names that have a
non-ASCII localpart, in which case the domain part of the address must be
represented in U-label form. They are used to specify the list of values
to match against the B<otherName> entries of type
B<id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox> (RFC 8398) in certificates.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8() sets the expected SMTPUTF8 email address
to I<email> for matching against B<otherName> SAN entries of type
B<id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox>, clearing any previously specified SMTPUTF8 email
address.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_smtputf8() adds I<email> as an additional reference
identifier that can match an B<otherName> SAN entry of type
B<id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox> in the peer's certificate. Any previous names set
via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_smtputf8(),
or X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email() are retained on success; no change is
made on failure.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email() is a convenience function that calls
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822() and X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8() with
the same I<email> argument and succeeds if either call succeeds. This
allows a caller that does not know whether a given email value is
ASCII-localpart or SMTPUTF8 to install it for matching against both
B<rfc822Name> and B<otherName> id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox SAN entries.

When any email address is configured, certificate verification
automatically invokes L<X509_check_email(3)>. The peer is considered
verified when any one of the specified RFC 822 names matches an
B<rfc822Name> SAN entry, or any one of the specified SMTPUTF8 names
matches an B<otherName> id-on-SmtpUTF8Mailbox SAN entry, in the
certificate.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_email() returns a previously configured expected
email address from I<param>, or NULL if neither an RFC 822 nor an
SMTPUTF8 address has been set. When both have been configured, the first
RFC 822 address is returned in preference to any SMTPUTF8 address. The
returned string is owned by the library and remains valid until I<param>
is modified or freed; the caller must not free it.

=head2 IP address matching

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip() sets the expected IP address to I<ip> for
matching against B<iPAddress> SAN entries in the peer's certificate,
clearing any previously specified IP address. The I<ip> argument must be
in binary format, in network byte order, and I<iplen> must be 4 for IPv4
or 16 for IPv6.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip() adds I<ip> as an additional reference
identifier that can match an B<iPAddress> SAN entry in the peer's
certificate. Any previous addresses set via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc(), or
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc() are retained on success; no change is
made on failure. It is a failure if I<ip> is NULL or I<iplen> is neither
4 nor 16.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc() sets the expected IP address to I<ip_asc>
for matching against B<iPAddress> SAN entries in the peer's certificate,
clearing any previously specified IP address. The I<ip_asc> argument
must be a NUL-terminated ASCII string: dotted decimal quad for IPv4 and
colon-separated hexadecimal for IPv6. The condensed "::" notation is
supported for IPv6 addresses.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc() adds I<ip_asc> as an additional reference
identifier that can match an B<iPAddress> SAN entry in the peer's
certificate. The format requirements on I<ip_asc> are the same as for
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc(). Any previous addresses set via
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc(), or X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc() are
retained on success; no change is made on failure. It is a failure if
I<ip_asc> is NULL or the empty string.

When any IP address is configured, certificate verification automatically
invokes L<X509_check_ip(3)> to match against B<iPAddress> SAN entries.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get1_ip_asc() returns a previously configured expected
IP address from I<param> as a freshly allocated ASCII string (dotted
decimal quad for IPv4, colon-separated hexadecimal for IPv6), or NULL if
no IP address has been set. The caller is responsible for freeing the
returned string with L<OPENSSL_free(3)>.

=head2 Input validation

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_input_validation() install a caller-supplied
callback that validates a reference-identifier value at the point it is
configured via the corresponding C<set1_> or C<add1_> function. The
callback receives the value and its length, and returns a nonzero value to
accept the input or zero to reject it; on rejection the C<set1_>/C<add1_>
call fails and no value is stored.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation() shares this contract but
is deprecated alongside the legacy host family. Callers using the
explicit dnsname/cn families should use
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation() and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation() instead.

These callbacks override OpenSSL's built-in input validation for the
corresponding name type. They affect only the validation performed when
reference identifiers are installed on the verification parameters; they
do not affect the actual matching performed during certificate
verification.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The C<set1_> and C<add1_> functions return 1 for success and 0 for
failure.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host() and X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_email() return
a pointer to a library-owned string, or NULL if no such configured value
exists (X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host() also returns NULL when its index
argument is out of range). Callers must not free the returned pointer.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get1_ip_asc() returns a freshly allocated string that
the caller must free with L<OPENSSL_free(3)>, or NULL if no IP address
has been configured.

The C<set1_*_input_validation()> functions do not return a value.

=head1 NOTES

The reference identifier lists configured by these functions are
consulted by L<X509_verify_cert(3)> when the corresponding B<X509_check_*>
checks are performed. Configuring a list for a given name type implicitly
enables the corresponding check; clearing it (by passing NULL or the
empty string to the C<set1_> form) disables it.

The dnsname list configured via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname() is
matched only against the certificate's subject alternative name
extension. To match against the certificate's commonName attribute, use
the commonName list configured via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn() and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn(). The legacy
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host() / X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host() functions
preserve a SAN-then-CN-fallback behaviour for callers maintaining
pre-4.1 code; new code should use the explicit dnsname/cn families.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_verify_cert(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags(3)>,
L<X509_check_host(3)>,
L<X509_check_email(3)>,
L<X509_check_ip(3)>,
L<NAME_CONSTRAINTS_check(3)>,
L<SSL_set1_host(3)>,
L<SSL_add1_host(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_asc() were added in OpenSSL 1.0.2.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_host(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_email(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get1_ip_asc() were added in OpenSSL 3.0.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip_asc() was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_rfc822(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_smtputf8(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_ip(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_rfc822_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_smtputf8_input_validation(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip_input_validation() were added in OpenSSL 4.0.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_cn(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_cn_input_validation(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_dnsname(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_dnsname_input_validation() were added in OpenSSL
4.1.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host_input_validation() were deprecated in OpenSSL
4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
