=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_STORE_new, X509_STORE_up_ref, X509_STORE_free,
X509_STORE_lock,X509_STORE_unlock
- X509_STORE allocation, freeing and locking functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 X509_STORE *X509_STORE_new(void);
 void X509_STORE_free(X509_STORE *xs);
 int X509_STORE_lock(X509_STORE *xs);
 int X509_STORE_unlock(X509_STORE *xs);
 int X509_STORE_up_ref(X509_STORE *xs);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The X509_STORE_new() function returns a new X509_STORE.

X509_STORE_up_ref() increments the reference count associated with the
X509_STORE object.

X509_STORE_lock() acquires an write lock on the store, blocking other threads
from reading or modifying the object cache (certificates and CRLs) until 
X509_STORE_unlock() is called. Individual operations such as 
L<X509_STORE_add_cert(3)> and certificate lookup functions manage this lock
internally, so applications do not normally need to call X509_STORE_lock()
directly. It can be used for compound operations that must be atomic with
respect to other threads, such as inspecting the store's state before
conditionally modifying it, or calling configuration functions on an
already-shared store.

X509_STORE_free() frees up a single X509_STORE object.
If the argument is NULL, nothing is done.

=head1 NOTES

=head2 Thread safety

B<X509_STORE> uses an internal read-write lock to protect its object cache
(certs and CRLs held in memory). Adding certificates or CRLs, for example 
L<X509_STORE_add_cert(3)> or L<X509_STORE_add_crl(3)>, as well as
looking up objects from the cache with L<X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject(3)>, 
will acquire this lock internally and are safe to call concurrently from 
multiple threads on the same store without external synchronization.

Store I<configuration> functions (X509_STORE_set_flags(),
X509_STORE_set_depth(), X509_STORE_set_purpose(), X509_STORE_set_trust(),
and similar) do B<not> acquire the internal lock. They must not be called
concurrently with any other operation on the same store. Typically, the
store is fully configured before being shared with other threads.

=head2 Lifetime management

When an B<X509_STORE> is shared across multiple threads, each thread or
component that holds a pointer to it should call X509_STORE_up_ref() to
acquire a reference, and release it with X509_STORE_free() when done.

The store's memory is freed when its reference count drops to zero, but
using reference counts alone is not sufficient to prevent concurrent
destruction. Although it prevents the store from being freed while
references are outstanding, it does not prevent a thread from calling
X509_STORE_free() and driving the count to zero while another thread is
mid-way through a lookup. 

Therefore, applications must ensure that all threads have finished operating 
on the store before the last X509_STORE_free() call is made; this can be done
by having a single owner thread that calls X509_STORE_free() only after 
joining with all threads that use the store.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_STORE_new() returns a newly created X509_STORE or NULL if the call fails.

X509_STORE_up_ref(), X509_STORE_lock() and X509_STORE_unlock() return
1 for success and 0 for failure.

X509_STORE_free() does not return values.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func(3)>
L<X509_STORE_get0_param(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The X509_STORE_up_ref(), X509_STORE_lock() and X509_STORE_unlock()
functions were added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
