=pod

=head1 NAME

X509v3_addr_add_prefix, X509v3_addr_add_range, X509v3_addr_add_inherit,
X509v3_addr_get_afi, X509v3_addr_get_range,
X509v3_addr_canonize, X509v3_addr_is_canonical,
X509v3_addr_inherits, X509v3_addr_subset,
X509v3_addr_validate_path, X509v3_addr_validate_resource_set
- RFC 3779 IP address delegation extension

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509v3_addr_add_prefix(IPAddrBlocks *addr,
                            const unsigned afi, const unsigned *safi,
                            unsigned char *a, const int prefixlen);
 int X509v3_addr_add_range(IPAddrBlocks *addr,
                           const unsigned afi, const unsigned *safi,
                           unsigned char *min, unsigned char *max);
 int X509v3_addr_add_inherit(IPAddrBlocks *addr,
                             const unsigned afi, const unsigned *safi);

 unsigned X509v3_addr_get_afi(const IPAddressFamily *f);
 int X509v3_addr_get_range(IPAddressOrRange *aor, const unsigned afi,
                           unsigned char *min, unsigned char *max,
                           const int length);

 int X509v3_addr_canonize(IPAddrBlocks *addr);
 int X509v3_addr_is_canonical(IPAddrBlocks *addr);

 int X509v3_addr_inherits(IPAddrBlocks *addr);
 int X509v3_addr_subset(IPAddrBlocks *a, IPAddrBlocks *b);

 int X509v3_addr_validate_path(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);
 int X509v3_addr_validate_resource_set(STACK_OF(X509) *chain,
                                       IPAddrBlocks *ext,
                                       int allow_inheritance);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions implement support for the IP Address Delegation extension
defined in RFC 3779 section 2. This extension is used in Resource Public
Key Infrastructure (RPKI) certificates to bind IP address blocks to the
holder of the certificate, enabling validation of BGP routing announcements.

All of these functions require OpenSSL to be built with RFC 3779 support
(enabled by default; disabled with B<OPENSSL_NO_RFC3779>).

The IP address data is represented using the B<IPAddrBlocks> type, which
is a stack of B<IPAddressFamily> structures. Each B<IPAddressFamily>
identifies an address family (IPv4 or IPv6) and optional sub-address
family (SAFI), and contains either an inheritance marker or a list of
IP address prefixes and ranges.

=head2 Construction Functions

X509v3_addr_add_prefix() adds an IP address prefix to I<addr> for the
address family identified by I<afi> and optional sub-address family I<safi>.
The prefix is specified as a raw address I<a> in network byte order with
I<prefixlen> significant bits. If I<safi> is NULL, no SAFI is used.

X509v3_addr_add_range() adds an IP address range to I<addr> for the
address family identified by I<afi> and optional sub-address family I<safi>.
The range is specified as raw minimum and maximum addresses I<min> and I<max>
in network byte order. If the range can be expressed as a prefix, it is
stored as a prefix automatically.

X509v3_addr_add_inherit() adds an inheritance marker to I<addr> for the
address family identified by I<afi> and optional sub-address family I<safi>.
When an address family is marked as inherited, the certificate inherits its
IP address resources from its issuer during path validation.

For all three functions, the I<afi> parameter should be B<IANA_AFI_IPV4>
(1) for IPv4 or B<IANA_AFI_IPV6> (2) for IPv6. The I<safi> parameter
is a pointer to a SAFI value, or NULL if no SAFI is needed. An address
family cannot have both an inheritance marker and explicit address entries.

=head2 Extraction Functions

X509v3_addr_get_afi() extracts the Address Family Identifier (AFI) from
the B<IPAddressFamily> structure I<f>. Returns the AFI value (B<IANA_AFI_IPV4>
or B<IANA_AFI_IPV6>) or 0 on error.

X509v3_addr_get_range() extracts the minimum and maximum addresses from
an B<IPAddressOrRange> structure I<aor> and writes them as raw addresses
into the buffers I<min> and I<max>. The I<afi> parameter specifies the
address family, and I<length> specifies the buffer size (must be at
least 4 for IPv4 or 16 for IPv6). For a prefix entry, the minimum is
the prefix with all remaining bits set to zero, and the maximum has all
remaining bits set to one.

=head2 Canonical Form

X509v3_addr_is_canonical() checks whether I<addr> is in canonical form
as defined by RFC 3779. In canonical form, the address families are sorted,
the address entries within each family are sorted and non-overlapping,
adjacent entries are merged, and ranges that can be expressed as prefixes
are stored as prefixes.

X509v3_addr_canonize() converts I<addr> into canonical form. This involves
sorting address families and entries, merging adjacent entries, and
converting ranges to prefixes where possible. Overlapping entries cause
an error.

=head2 Inheritance and Subset Tests

X509v3_addr_inherits() returns 1 if any address family in I<addr> uses
inheritance, and 0 otherwise.

X509v3_addr_subset() tests whether the IP address set I<a> is a subset
of the IP address set I<b>. Both I<a> and I<b> must be in canonical form
and must not use inheritance. Returns 1 if I<a> is a subset of I<b>,
and 0 otherwise.

=head2 Path Validation

X509v3_addr_validate_path() performs RFC 3779 section 2.3 path validation
on the certificate chain in I<ctx>. This verifies that every certificate
in the chain only claims IP address resources that are contained in its
issuer's IP address resources, and that the trust anchor does not use
inheritance. This function is called automatically during certificate
verification when the appropriate verification flags are set.

X509v3_addr_validate_resource_set() tests whether the certificate chain
I<chain> covers the IP address resources in I<ext>. If I<allow_inheritance>
is 0, the function rejects extensions that use inheritance. This function
can be used to verify that a specific set of IP addresses is covered by
a certificate chain without requiring a full B<X509_STORE_CTX>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509v3_addr_add_prefix(), X509v3_addr_add_range(), and
X509v3_addr_add_inherit() return 1 on success and 0 on error.

X509v3_addr_get_afi() returns the AFI value (B<IANA_AFI_IPV4> or
B<IANA_AFI_IPV6>) or 0 if I<f> is NULL or has invalid data.

X509v3_addr_get_range() returns the address length in bytes (4 for IPv4,
16 for IPv6) on success or 0 on error.

X509v3_addr_is_canonical() returns 1 if I<addr> is in canonical form
and 0 otherwise. A NULL I<addr> is considered canonical.

X509v3_addr_canonize() returns 1 on success and 0 on error (for example,
if the input contains overlapping ranges).

X509v3_addr_inherits() returns 1 if any address family uses inheritance,
and 0 otherwise. Returns 0 if I<addr> is NULL.

X509v3_addr_subset() returns 1 if I<a> is a subset of I<b>, and 0
otherwise. Returns 1 if I<a> is NULL, and 0 if I<b> is NULL or
either set uses inheritance.

X509v3_addr_validate_path() and X509v3_addr_validate_resource_set()
return 1 if validation succeeds and 0 if it fails. On failure,
X509v3_addr_validate_path() sets the error code in I<ctx>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509v3_asid_add_id_or_range(3)>,
L<X509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.8e.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
