=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_set_nconf, X509V3_set_conf_lhash - set configuration database
for X509 extension generation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 void X509V3_set_nconf(X509V3_CTX *ctx, CONF *conf);
 void X509V3_set_conf_lhash(X509V3_CTX *ctx, LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *lhash);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_set_nconf() sets the configuration database of the B<X509V3_CTX>
structure I<ctx> to the B<CONF> configuration file I<conf>. This allows the
extension generation functions to look up values and sections from the
configuration file. This function should be called after L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>
and before any calls to extension generation functions such as
L<X509V3_EXT_nconf(3)> or L<X509V3_EXT_add_nconf(3)>.

X509V3_set_conf_lhash() is an older variant that sets the configuration
database to an B<LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE)> structure. New code should use
X509V3_set_nconf() instead.

=head1 NOTES

The B<X509V3_set_ctx_nodb> macro can be used instead of these functions
when no configuration database is needed. It is defined as:

 #define X509V3_set_ctx_nodb(ctx) (ctx)->db = NULL;

This is appropriate when all extension values are specified as literal
strings rather than references to configuration file sections.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions do not return a value.

=head1 EXAMPLES

 X509V3_CTX ctx;
 CONF *conf;

 /* Load configuration file */
 conf = NCONF_new(NULL);
 NCONF_load(conf, "openssl.cnf", NULL);

 /* Set up context */
 X509V3_set_ctx(&ctx, issuer, subject, NULL, NULL, 0);
 X509V3_set_nconf(&ctx, conf);

 /* Now generate extensions */
 X509V3_EXT_add_nconf(conf, &ctx, "v3_extensions", cert);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>,
L<X509V3_EXT_nconf(3)>,
L<X509V3_get_string(3)>,
L<NCONF_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
