=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_EXT_nconf, X509V3_EXT_nconf_nid, X509V3_EXT_conf, X509V3_EXT_conf_nid,
X509V3_EXT_add_nconf, X509V3_EXT_add_nconf_sk,
X509V3_EXT_add_conf,
X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_nconf, X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_conf,
X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_nconf, X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_conf
- X509 extension generation from configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 X509_EXTENSION *X509V3_EXT_nconf(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                                  const char *name, const char *value);
 X509_EXTENSION *X509V3_EXT_nconf_nid(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                                      int ext_nid, const char *value);
 X509_EXTENSION *X509V3_EXT_conf(LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *conf,
                                 X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                                 const char *name, const char *value);
 X509_EXTENSION *X509V3_EXT_conf_nid(LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *conf,
                                     X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                                     int ext_nid, const char *value);

 int X509V3_EXT_add_nconf(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                          const char *section, X509 *cert);
 int X509V3_EXT_add_nconf_sk(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                             const char *section,
                             STACK_OF(X509_EXTENSION) **sk);
 int X509V3_EXT_add_conf(LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                         const char *section, X509 *cert);

 int X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_nconf(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                              const char *section, X509_REQ *req);
 int X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_conf(LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *conf,
                             X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                             const char *section, X509_REQ *req);

 int X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_nconf(CONF *conf, X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                              const char *section, X509_CRL *crl);
 int X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_conf(LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE) *conf,
                             X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                             const char *section, X509_CRL *crl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_EXT_nconf() creates an X509 extension from a I<name> and I<value>
string pair, using the configuration file I<conf> to resolve any references
to config file sections. The I<ctx> parameter contains the certificate
environment (see L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>). If I<conf> is NULL, the extension
must not reference any config file sections.

The I<value> string may be prefixed with C<critical,> to make the extension
critical. It may also use the special prefixes C<DER:> to provide raw
DER-encoded data in hex, or C<ASN1:> to use the L<ASN1_generate_nconf(3)>
syntax for arbitrary ASN.1 structures.

X509V3_EXT_nconf_nid() is identical to X509V3_EXT_nconf() except it takes
the NID of the extension as I<ext_nid> rather than its name.

X509V3_EXT_conf() and X509V3_EXT_conf_nid() are older variants that accept
an B<LHASH_OF(CONF_VALUE)> configuration database rather than a B<CONF>
structure. New code should use the B<CONF>-based functions instead.

X509V3_EXT_add_nconf() reads all extension definitions from the given
I<section> of configuration file I<conf> and adds them to the certificate
I<cert>. If I<cert> is NULL, the extensions are created and checked for
syntax errors but not added anywhere.

X509V3_EXT_add_nconf_sk() is similar to X509V3_EXT_add_nconf() but adds
the extensions to a stack of extensions I<*sk> instead of a certificate.
If I<sk> is NULL, the extensions are only checked for syntax validity.

X509V3_EXT_add_conf() is the B<LHASH>-based variant of
X509V3_EXT_add_nconf().

X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_nconf() reads all extension definitions from the given
I<section> and adds them to the certificate request I<req>.
X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_conf() is its B<LHASH>-based variant.

X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_nconf() reads all extension definitions from the given
I<section> and adds them to the CRL I<crl>.
X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_conf() is its B<LHASH>-based variant.

=head1 NOTES

The context should be set up using L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)> and the
configuration database should be set using L<X509V3_set_nconf(3)> or
L<X509V3_set_conf_lhash(3)> before calling the extension generation functions.

If B<X509V3_CTX_REPLACE> was passed as the flags to L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>,
any existing extension with the same OID will be replaced by the new one.

When adding extensions to a certificate or CRL, the subject key identifier
extension is always processed before the authority key identifier extension,
regardless of the order in the configuration file. This ensures that the
authority key identifier can reference the subject key identifier if needed.

See L<x509v3_config(5)> for details on the extension value syntax
and the supported extensions.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_EXT_nconf(), X509V3_EXT_nconf_nid(), X509V3_EXT_conf() and
X509V3_EXT_conf_nid() return an B<X509_EXTENSION> pointer or NULL on error.
The returned extension must be freed using L<X509_EXTENSION_free(3)>.

X509V3_EXT_add_nconf(), X509V3_EXT_add_nconf_sk(), X509V3_EXT_add_conf(),
X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_nconf(), X509V3_EXT_REQ_add_conf(),
X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_nconf() and X509V3_EXT_CRL_add_conf() return 1 on
success and 0 on error.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Create a basic constraints extension:

 X509_EXTENSION *ex;
 ex = X509V3_EXT_nconf(NULL, NULL, "basicConstraints",
                        "critical,CA:TRUE,pathlen:10");

Add extensions from a configuration file section to a certificate:

 X509V3_CTX ctx;
 X509V3_set_ctx(&ctx, issuer, subject, NULL, NULL, 0);
 X509V3_set_nconf(&ctx, conf);
 X509V3_EXT_add_nconf(conf, &ctx, "v3_extensions", cert);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>,
L<X509V3_set_nconf(3)>,
L<X509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<x509v3_config(5)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
