=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_hostflags - X509 hostname verification flags

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                      unsigned int flags);
 unsigned int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_hostflags(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Host flags control how hostname matching is performed during certificate
verification: which wildcard forms are permitted in the certificate's subject
alternative name (SAN) entries, and whether the certificate's subject
distinguished name is consulted in addition to the SAN.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags() sets the host flags on I<param> to
I<flags>, for use during subsequent calls to L<X509_verify_cert(3)>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_hostflags() returns any host flags previously set via a
call to X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags().

The I<flags> default to 0. They may be set to a bitwise OR of the following:

=over 4

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_ALWAYS_CHECK_SUBJECT>

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NEVER_CHECK_SUBJECT>

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NO_WILDCARDS>

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NO_PARTIAL_WILDCARDS>

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_MULTI_LABEL_WILDCARDS>

=item B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_SINGLE_LABEL_SUBDOMAINS>

=back

By default the subject distinguished name is not consulted; matching is
performed only against the subject alternative name extension.

The B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_ALWAYS_CHECK_SUBJECT> flag causes the function to
also match against the subject DN (the B<commonName> attribute for DNS
names, the B<emailAddress> attribute for email addresses), whether or not
the certificate contains a subject alternative name of the corresponding
type.

The B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NEVER_CHECK_SUBJECT> flag suppresses matching against
the subject DN. As that is already the default, this flag has an effect
only in combination with B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_ALWAYS_CHECK_SUBJECT>, over
which it takes precedence.

If set, B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NO_WILDCARDS> disables wildcard
expansion.

If set, B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_NO_PARTIAL_WILDCARDS> suppresses support
for "*" as wildcard pattern in labels that have a prefix or suffix,
such as: "www*" or "*www".

If set, B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_MULTI_LABEL_WILDCARDS> allows a "*" that
constitutes the complete label of a DNS name (e.g. "*.example.com")
to match more than one label in the configured reference identifier.

If set, B<X509_CHECK_FLAG_SINGLE_LABEL_SUBDOMAINS> restricts reference
identifiers which start with ".", that would otherwise match any
sub-domain in the peer certificate, to only match direct child
sub-domains. Thus, for instance, with this flag set a reference
identifier of ".example.com" would match a peer certificate with a DNS
name of "www.example.com", but would not match a peer certificate with
a DNS name of "www.sub.example.com".

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_hostflags() returns the flag values.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_verify_cert(3)>,
L<SSL_get_verify_result(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add1_host(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_email(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_ip(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags() was added in OpenSSL 1.0.2.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_hostflags() was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0i.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
