=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_get_string, X509V3_string_free,
X509V3_get_section, X509V3_section_free
- configuration database access for X509 extension generation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 char *X509V3_get_string(X509V3_CTX *ctx, const char *name,
                         const char *section);
 void X509V3_string_free(X509V3_CTX *ctx, char *str);

 STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) *X509V3_get_section(X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                                          const char *section);
 void X509V3_section_free(X509V3_CTX *ctx,
                          STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) *section);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions provide access to the configuration database associated with
an B<X509V3_CTX> structure. They are primarily used when implementing custom
B<r2i> extension methods that need to access configuration file data
(see L<X509V3_EXT_add(3)>).

The configuration database must have been previously set using
L<X509V3_set_nconf(3)> or L<X509V3_set_conf_lhash(3)>.

X509V3_get_string() retrieves the value of the parameter I<name> from
the configuration I<section>. It returns NULL if the value cannot be found
or no configuration database has been set.

X509V3_string_free() frees the string I<str> that was returned by
X509V3_get_string().

X509V3_get_section() returns a whole configuration I<section> as a
B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)>. It returns NULL if the section cannot be found
or no configuration database has been set.

X509V3_section_free() frees the stack I<section> that was returned by
X509V3_get_section().

=head1 NOTES

These functions delegate to the B<X509V3_CONF_METHOD> function pointers
stored in the B<X509V3_CTX>. This allows the extension code to work
with different configuration backends. The standard backends are set up
by L<X509V3_set_nconf(3)> and L<X509V3_set_conf_lhash(3)>.

It is also possible to provide a custom configuration backend by setting
the I<db_meth> member of the B<X509V3_CTX> structure to a custom
B<X509V3_CONF_METHOD> structure with appropriate callback functions.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_get_string() returns a pointer to a string or NULL on error.

X509V3_get_section() returns a pointer to a B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)> or
NULL on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_set_nconf(3)>,
L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>,
L<X509V3_EXT_add(3)>,
L<NCONF_get_string(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
