=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject,
X509_STORE_CTX_get_obj_by_subject
- X509 and X509_CRL lookup functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 int X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject(const X509_STORE_CTX *vs,
                                   X509_LOOKUP_TYPE type,
                                   const X509_NAME *name, X509_OBJECT *ret);
 X509_OBJECT *X509_STORE_CTX_get_obj_by_subject(X509_STORE_CTX *vs,
                                                X509_LOOKUP_TYPE type,
                                                const X509_NAME *name);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject() tries to find an object
of given I<type>, which may be B<X509_LU_X509> or B<X509_LU_CRL>,
and subject I<name> from the store in the provided store context I<vs>.
If found and I<ret> is not NULL, it increments the reference count and
stores the looked up object in I<ret>.

X509_STORE_CTX_get_obj_by_subject() is like X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject()
but returns the found object on success, else NULL.

=head1 NOTES

These functions internally acquire a read lock on the underlying
B<X509_STORE>'s object cache for the initial lookup. One can therefore
call them concurrently with L<X509_STORE_add_cert(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_add_crl(3)>, or with other lookup functions on the same store.

However, these functions release the store's internal lock before
incrementing the found object's reference count and copying its data
into I<ret>. The caller must therefore ensure that the underlying
B<X509_STORE> is not freed by another thread while these functions are
executing. A concurrent L<X509_STORE_free(3)> that destroys the store and
its cached objects can cause a use-after-free even if the store's reference
count had not yet reached zero at the time the lookup began.

Applications sharing a store across threads should manage its lifetime with
L<X509_STORE_up_ref(3)> and L<X509_STORE_free(3)>, and must ensure that
all lookup operations have completed before the store is freed. See
L<X509_STORE_new(3)> for more discussion of the B<X509_STORE> threading
model.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_STORE_CTX_get_by_subject() returns 1 if the lookup was successful, else 0.

X509_STORE_CTX_get_obj_by_subject() returns an object on success, else NULL.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_LOOKUP_meth_set_get_by_subject(3)>,
L<X509_LOOKUP_by_subject(3)>
L<X509_STORE_new(3)> 

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
