=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_NAME_from_section - build an X509_NAME from a config file section

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509V3_NAME_from_section(X509_NAME *nm,
                              STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) *dn_sk,
                              unsigned long chtype);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_NAME_from_section() builds an B<X509_NAME> structure I<nm> from
a stack of B<CONF_VALUE> entries I<dn_sk>. Each entry's I<name> specifies
a distinguished name component (such as "CN" or "O") and its I<value>
supplies the value for that component. The I<chtype> parameter specifies
the ASN.1 string type to use (typically B<MBSTRING_ASC> or B<MBSTRING_UTF8>).

In each B<CONF_VALUE>, any characters up to and including the first
C<:>, C<,>, or C<.> in I<name> are skipped, allowing multiple entries
with the same attribute type to be specified in a configuration file section.
For example, the names "1.CN", "2.CN", "O" would all be valid, where
the prefixes "1." and "2." are stripped before processing.

If the attribute name (after stripping) starts with C<+>, the component is
added as a multi-valued RDN (relative distinguished name) to the previous
entry, rather than as a new RDN.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_NAME_from_section() returns 1 on success and 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<X509V3_set_ctx(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

This function has been available since OpenSSL 0.9.7.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
