=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_get_default_cert_file, X509_get_default_cert_file_env,
X509_get_default_cert_path_env,
X509_get_default_cert_dir, X509_get_default_cert_dir_env,
X509_get_default_cert_uri, X509_get_default_cert_uri_env -
retrieve default locations for trusted CA certificates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 const char *X509_get_default_cert_file(void);
 const char *X509_get_default_cert_dir(void);
 const char *X509_get_default_cert_uri(void);

 const char *X509_get_default_cert_file_env(void);
 const char *X509_get_default_cert_path_env(void);
 const char *X509_get_default_cert_dir_env(void);
 const char *X509_get_default_cert_uri_env(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The X509_get_default_cert_file() function returns the default path
to a file containing trusted CA certificates. OpenSSL will use this as
the default path when it is asked to load trusted CA certificates
from a file and no other path is specified. If the file exists, CA certificates
are loaded from the file.

The X509_get_default_cert_dir() function returns a default delimeter-separated
list of paths to a directories containing trusted CA certificates named in the
hashed format. OpenSSL will use this as the default list of paths when it is
asked to load trusted CA certificates from a directory and no other path is
specified. If a given directory in the list exists, OpenSSL attempts to lookup
CA certificates in this directory by calculating a filename based on a hash of
the certificate's subject name.

The X509_get_default_cert_uri() function returns the default URI for a
certificate store accessed programmatically via an OpenSSL provider. If there is
no default store applicable to the system for which OpenSSL was compiled, this
returns an empty string.

X509_get_default_cert_file_env() and X509_get_default_cert_uri_env() return
environment variable names which are recommended to specify nondefault values to
be used instead of the values returned by X509_get_default_cert_file() and
X509_get_default_cert_uri() respectively. The values returned by the latter
functions are not affected by these environment variables; you must check for
these environment variables yourself, using these functions to retrieve the
correct environment variable names. If an environment variable is not set, the
value returned by the corresponding function above should be used.

X509_get_default_cert_path_env() returns the environment variable name which is
recommended to specify a nondefault value to be used instead of the value
returned by X509_get_default_cert_dir(). This environment variable supercedes
the deprecated environment variable whose name is returned by
X509_get_default_cert_dir_env(). This environment variable was deprecated as its
contents can be interpreted ambiguously; see NOTES.

By default, OpenSSL uses the path list specified in the environment variable
whose name is returned by X509_get_default_cert_path_env() if it is set;
otherwise, it uses the path list specified in the environment variable whose
name is returned by X509_get_default_cert_dir_env() if it is set; otherwise, it
uses the value returned by X509_get_default_cert_dir()).

=head1 NOTES

X509_get_default_cert_uri(), X509_get_default_cert_uri_env() and
X509_get_default_cert_path_env() were introduced in OpenSSL 3.2. Prior to this
release, store URIs were expressed via the environment variable returned by
X509_get_default_cert_dir_env(); this environment variable could be used to
specify either a list of directories or a store URI. This creates an ambiguity
in which the environment variable returned by X509_get_default_cert_dir_env() is
interpreted both as a list of directories and as a store URI.

This usage and the environment variable returned by
X509_get_default_cert_dir_env() are now deprecated; to specify a store URI, use
the environment variable returned by X509_get_default_cert_uri_env(), and to
specify a list of directories, use the environment variable returned by
X509_get_default_cert_path_env().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions return pointers to constant strings with static storage
duration.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_LOOKUP(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_default_verify_file(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_default_verify_dir(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_default_verify_store(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_load_verify_file(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_load_verify_dir(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_load_verify_store(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_load_verify_locations(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

X509_get_default_cert_uri(), X509_get_default_cert_path_env() and
X509_get_default_cert_uri_env() were introduced in OpenSSL 3.2.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
