=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_add1_other_algor, 
X509_get0_other_algors, X509_get0_other_by_nid, 
X509_other_clear_nid, X509_other_clear,
X509_get0_aux_server_distrust_after,
X509_set0_aux_server_distrust_after,
X509_get0_aux_email_distrust_after,
X509_set0_aux_email_distrust_after
- X509 certificate auxiliary informations other type functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 void X509_other_clear(X509 *x);
 STACK_OF(X509_ALGOR) *X509_get0_other_algors(X509 *x);
 X509_ALGOR *X509_get0_other_by_nid(X509 *x, int nid);
 int X509_other_clear_nid(X509 *x, int nid);
 int X509_set0_aux_server_distrust_after(X509 *x, ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *time);
 ASN1_TIME *X509_get0_aux_server_distrust_after(X509 *x);
 int X509_set0_aux_email_distrust_after(X509 *x, ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *time);
 ASN1_TIME *X509_get0_aux_email_distrust_after(X509 *x);
 int X509_add1_other_algor(X509 *x, const X509_ALGOR *alg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509_add1_other_algor() addes an X509_ALGOR into cert->aux->other
X509_other_clear() clear and frees everythintg in cert->aux->other

X509_get0_other_algors() returns cert->aux->other, 
or NULL if any of in route is NULL

X509_get0_other_by_nid() will find first extension from top of 
cert->aux->other stack with matching nid, and will  return that.
if not found it will return NULL.

X509_other_clear_nid();
lopps over cert->aux->other and frees every member that have matching nid.

int X509_set0_aux_server_distrust_after(X509 *x, ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *time);
set distrust-server-after date to the certificate time in *time.
leaf certificate that chained to this CA but signed after 'time' will be rejected, if used for serverAuth purpose.
equiervent with CKA_NSS_SERVER_DISTRUST_AFTER from Mozilla root store certdata.txt

ASN1_TIME *X509_get0_aux_server_distrust_after(X509 *x);
get current distrust after date of this certificate for tls serverAuth purpose, NULL if it doesn't have any.

int X509_set0_aux_email_distrust_after(X509 *x, ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME *time);
set distrust after date to the certificate time in *time.
leaf certificate that chained to this CA but signed after 'time' will be rejected for smime context.
equiervent with CKA_NSS_EMAIL_DISTRUST_AFTER from Mozilla root store certdata.txt

ASN1_TIME *X509_get0_aux_email_distrust_after(X509 *x);
get current distrust after date of this certificate for smime purpose, NULL if it doesn't have any.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Described above.

=head1 HISTORY

The functions X509_add1_other_algor(), X509_get0_other_algors(),
 X509_get0_other_by_nid(), X509_other_clear_nid(),
X509_other_clear(), X509_get0_aux_server_distrust_after(), X509_set0_aux_server_distrust_after(),
X509_get0_aux_email_distrust_after(), X509_set0_aux_email_distrust_after(),
was added in openssl 3.6

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025-2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
