=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_check_ca - check if given certificate is CA certificate

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509_check_ca(X509 *cert);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This function checks if the given certificate (likely) is CA certificate
and thus is acceptable for signing other certificates.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The function returns
X509_CA_TYPE_NON_CA_OR_ERROR if it is not CA certificate or we do not know
X509_CA_TYPE_V3 if it is proper X509v3 CA certificate
with B<basicConstraints> extension CA:TRUE,
X509_CA_TYPE_V1_SELF_SIGNED if it is a self-signed X509 v1 certificate,
which usually indicates this is a CA cert, but might be an end-entity cert,
X509_CA_TYPE_V3_KEY_CERT_SIGN, if it is certificate with B<keyUsage> extension
with bit B<keyCertSign> set, but without B<basicConstraints>, and
X509_CA_TYPE_NETSCAPE if it has outdated Netscape Certificate Type extension
telling that it is CA certificate.

This function also returns X509_CA_TYPE_NON_CA_OR_ERROR (equaling 0) on error.

Actually, any nonzero value means that this certificate could have been
used to sign other certificates.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_verify_cert(3)>,
L<X509_check_issued(3)>,
L<X509_check_purpose(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
