=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_clear_flags,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_flags, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_purpose,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_inh_flags, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_inh_flags,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_trust, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_depth, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_auth_level,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_auth_level, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_time,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add0_policy, X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_policies,
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_peername
- X509 verification parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                 unsigned long flags);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_clear_flags(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   unsigned long flags);
 unsigned long X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_flags(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_inh_flags(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                     uint32_t flags);
 uint32_t X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_inh_flags(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param, int purpose);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_purpose(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_trust(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param, int trust);

 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param, time_t t);
 time_t X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_time(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add0_policy(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                   ASN1_OBJECT *policy);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_policies(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                     STACK_OF(ASN1_OBJECT) *policies);

 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param, int depth);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_depth(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 void X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_auth_level(X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param,
                                       int auth_level);
 int X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_auth_level(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

 char *X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_peername(const X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

An B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> object collects the configuration consumed by a
certificate verification operation: the verification flags, the purpose
and trust selectors, the verification time, the maximum chain depth, the
required security level, the acceptable certificate policies, and the
reference identifiers against which the peer certificate's names are
matched. B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> objects are typically attached to an
B<X509_STORE> or an B<SSL_CTX>/B<SSL> and reach L<X509_verify_cert(3)>
through the B<X509_STORE_CTX> being verified; values propagate from one
parameter set to another according to the rules in L</INHERITANCE FLAGS>.

These functions manipulate an B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM>. The functions for
configuring its reference identifiers (hostnames, email addresses, and
IP addresses) are documented in
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(3)>.

The X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags() function sets the flags in I<param> by
ORing it with I<flags>. See L</VERIFICATION FLAGS> for a complete
description of values the I<flags> parameter can take.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_clear_flags() clears the flags I<flags> in I<param>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_flags() returns the flags in I<param>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_inh_flags() returns the inheritance flags in I<param>
which specifies how verification flags are copied from one structure to
another. X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_inh_flags() sets the inheritance flags.
See the L</INHERITANCE FLAGS> section for a description of these bits.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose() sets the verification purpose in I<param>
to I<purpose>. This determines the acceptable purpose of the certificate
chain, for example B<X509_PURPOSE_SSL_CLIENT>.
The purpose requirement is cleared if I<purpose> is B<X509_PURPOSE_DEFAULT_ANY>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_purpose() returns the purpose in I<param>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_trust() sets the trust selector in I<param> to
I<trust>, which must be one of the B<X509_TRUST_*> identifiers defined
in F<openssl/x509_vfy.h>. This is a legacy mechanism that most
applications should not use; see L</BUGS>. There is no public getter
for the trust selector.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time() sets the verification time in I<param> to
I<t>, which is then used as the reference time for certificate and CRL
validity-period checks in place of the current time. Calling this
function automatically sets the B<X509_V_FLAG_USE_CHECK_TIME> flag (see
L</Validity period (time)>). If X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time() has not
been called, validity checks are performed against the current time.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_time() returns the verification time configured on
I<param>.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add0_policy() adds I<policy> to the acceptable policy
set. Policy checking itself must be enabled separately, either by setting
B<X509_V_FLAG_POLICY_CHECK> via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags() or by
calling X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_policies().

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_policies() enables policy checking (it is disabled
by default) and sets the acceptable policy set to I<policies>. Any existing
policy set is cleared. The I<policies> parameter can be NULL to clear
an existing policy set.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth() sets the maximum verification depth to
I<depth>. That is the maximum number of intermediate CA certificates that
can appear in a chain. If X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth() is not called,
the verification depth defaults to 100.
A maximal depth chain contains 2 more certificates than the limit, since
neither the end-entity certificate nor the trust-anchor count against this
limit.
Thus a I<depth> limit of 0 only allows the end-entity certificate to be signed
directly by the trust anchor, while with a I<depth> limit of 1 there can be one
intermediate CA certificate between the trust anchor and the end-entity
certificate.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_auth_level() sets the authentication security level to
I<auth_level>.
The authentication security level determines the acceptable signature and public
key strength when verifying certificate chains.
For a certificate chain to validate, the public keys of all the certificates
must meet the specified security level.
The signature algorithm security level is not enforced for the chain's I<trust
anchor> certificate, which is either directly trusted or validated by means other
than its signature.
See L<SSL_CTX_set_security_level(3)> for the definitions of the available
levels.
The default security level is -1, or "not set".
At security level 0 or lower all algorithms are acceptable.
Security level 1 requires at least 80-bit-equivalent security and is broadly
interoperable, though it will, for example, reject MD5 signatures or RSA keys
shorter than 1024 bits.

The remaining accessor on this page reports a result populated during
certificate verification rather than a configured parameter:
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_peername() returns the DNS hostname or subject
CommonName from the peer certificate that matched one of the reference
identifiers. When wildcard matching is not disabled, or when a reference
identifier specifies a parent domain (starts with "."), rather than a
hostname, the peer name may be a wildcard name or a sub-domain of the
reference identifier respectively. The returned string is allocated by
the library and is no longer valid once the associated I<param> argument
is freed. Applications must not free the return value.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_clear_flags(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_inh_flags(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_trust(),
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add0_policy(), and X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_policies()
return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get0_peername() returns a pointer to the name from the
peer certificate that matched a configured reference identifier, or NULL
if no match has been recorded.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_flags() returns the current verification flags.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_inh_flags() returns the current inheritance flags.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time(), X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_depth(), and
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_auth_level() do not return values.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_time() returns the verification time previously
configured on I<param> via X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time().

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_depth() returns the current verification depth.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_auth_level() returns the current authentication security
level.

X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_purpose() returns the current purpose,
which may be B<X509_PURPOSE_DEFAULT_ANY> if unset.

=head1 VERIFICATION FLAGS

The verification flags consist of zero or more of the following values
ORed together. Unless noted otherwise, each flag is off by default.

=head2 Revocation checking

B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK> enables CRL checking for the certificate chain
leaf certificate. An error occurs if a suitable CRL cannot be found.

B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK_ALL> expands CRL checking to the entire
certificate chain if B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK> has also been enabled, and
is otherwise ignored.

B<X509_V_FLAG_OCSP_RESP_CHECK> enables Online Certificate Status Protocol
(OCSP) checking for the certificate chain leaf certificate. An error
occurs if a suitable OCSP response cannot be found.

B<X509_V_FLAG_OCSP_RESP_CHECK_ALL> expands OCSP checking to the entire
certificate chain if B<X509_V_FLAG_OCSP_RESP_CHECK> has also been
enabled, and is otherwise ignored.

If B<X509_V_FLAG_EXTENDED_CRL_SUPPORT> is set, some additional features
such as indirect CRLs and CRLs signed by different keys are enabled. By
default these features are disabled.

If B<X509_V_FLAG_USE_DELTAS> is set, delta CRLs (if present) are used to
determine certificate status. If not set, deltas are ignored.

=head2 Certificate policy checking

B<X509_V_FLAG_POLICY_CHECK> enables certificate policy checking. By
default no policy checking is performed. Additional information is sent
to the verification callback relating to policy checking.

B<X509_V_FLAG_EXPLICIT_POLICY>, B<X509_V_FLAG_INHIBIT_ANY>, and
B<X509_V_FLAG_INHIBIT_MAP> set the C<require explicit policy>, C<inhibit
any policy>, and C<inhibit policy mapping> flags respectively as defined
in RFC 5280. Policy checking is automatically enabled if any of these
flags is set.

If B<X509_V_FLAG_NOTIFY_POLICY> is set and policy checking is
successful, a special status code is delivered to the verification
callback. This permits the callback to examine the valid policy tree
and perform additional checks, or simply to log it for debugging
purposes.

=head2 Chain construction

When B<X509_V_FLAG_TRUSTED_FIRST> is set, which is the default since
OpenSSL 1.1.0, construction of the certificate chain in
L<X509_verify_cert(3)> searches the trust store for issuer certificates
before searching the provided untrusted certificates. Local issuer
certificates are often more likely to satisfy local security
requirements and lead to a locally trusted root. This is especially
important when some certificates in the trust store have explicit trust
settings (see "TRUST SETTINGS" in L<openssl-x509(1)>).

The B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_ALT_CHAINS> flag suppresses checking for
alternative chains. By default, when the initial untrusted-first chain
fails to reach a trust anchor, the build is retried with progressively
shorter untrusted prefixes in an attempt to find an alternative.

The B<X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN> flag causes non-self-signed
certificates in the trust store to be treated as trust anchors, in the
same way as self-signed root CA certificates. This makes it possible to
trust self-issued certificates as well as certificates issued by an
intermediate CA without having to trust their ancestor root CA. With
B<X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN> set, chain construction stops as soon as
the first certificate contained in the trust store is added to the
chain, whether that certificate is a self-signed "root" certificate or
a not self-signed "intermediate" or self-issued certificate. Thus, when
an intermediate certificate is found in the trust store, the verified
chain passed to callbacks may be shorter than it otherwise would be
without the B<X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN> flag.

B<X509_V_FLAG_CHECK_SS_SIGNATURE> requests checking the signature of
the last certificate in a chain if the certificate is supposedly
self-signed. This is prohibited and will result in an error if it is a
non-conforming CA certificate with key usage restrictions not including
the I<keyCertSign> bit. By default this check is disabled because it
does not add any additional security, but in some cases applications
might want to check the signature anyway. A side effect of not checking
the self-signature of such a certificate is that disabled or
unsupported message digests used for the signature are not treated as
fatal errors.

=head2 Validity period (time)

B<X509_V_FLAG_USE_CHECK_TIME> indicates that the time stored on the
parameters should be used for validity period checks in place of the
current time. This flag is set automatically by
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time(); applications do not normally manipulate
it directly.

The B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_CHECK_TIME> flag suppresses checking the validity
period of certificates and CRLs against the current time. If
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_time() has been used to specify a verification
time, the check is performed against the specified time and this flag
has no effect.

=head2 Extension processing and strictness

B<X509_V_FLAG_IGNORE_CRITICAL> disables critical extension checking. By
default, any unhandled critical extensions in certificates or (if
checked) CRLs result in a fatal error. If this flag is set, unhandled
critical extensions are ignored. B<WARNING:> setting this option for
anything other than debugging purposes can be a security risk. Finer
control over which extensions are supported can be performed in the
verification callback.

The B<X509_V_FLAG_X509_STRICT> flag disables workarounds for some
broken certificates and makes verification strictly apply B<X509>
rules.

B<X509_V_FLAG_ALLOW_PROXY_CERTS> enables proxy certificate verification.
By default, proxy certificates are not accepted.

=head2 Suite B compliance

These flags enable enforcement of the NSA Suite B cryptographic
profile, a now-legacy profile that restricts chain validation to a
specific subset of elliptic-curve algorithms. Suite B has been
superseded by NSA's Commercial National Security Algorithm (CNSA) Suite
for new deployments.

B<X509_V_FLAG_SUITEB_128_LOS_ONLY> restricts the chain to the Suite B
128-bit level of security: certificates must use the NIST P-256 curve
with ECDSA and SHA-256.

B<X509_V_FLAG_SUITEB_192_LOS> restricts the chain to the Suite B 192-bit
level of security: certificates must use the NIST P-384 curve with
ECDSA and SHA-384.

B<X509_V_FLAG_SUITEB_128_LOS> is the bitwise OR of the two flags above
and permits either level of security in the chain, with the constraint
that once a P-384 certificate has appeared in the chain, P-256
certificates may not subsequently be used.

=head1 INHERITANCE FLAGS

These flags control how the values stored in one B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> are
copied into another when verification parameters are "inherited", for
example when an B<SSL> object inherits its verification parameters from
the B<SSL_CTX> that created it. In the descriptions below, "from" refers
to the source B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> from which values are copied, and "to"
refers to the destination B<X509_VERIFY_PARAM> into which they are copied.

If B<X509_VP_FLAG_ONCE> is set then the current setting is zeroed
after the next call.

If B<X509_VP_FLAG_LOCKED> is set then no values are copied.  This overrides
all of the following flags.

If B<X509_VP_FLAG_DEFAULT> is set then anything set in the source is copied
to the destination. Effectively the values in "to" become default values
which will be used only if nothing new is set in "from".  This is the
default.

If B<X509_VP_FLAG_OVERWRITE> is set then all values are copied across
whether they are set or not. Flags are still ORed though.

If B<X509_VP_FLAG_RESET_FLAGS> is set then the flags value is copied instead
of ORed.

=head1 NOTES

The above functions should be used to manipulate verification parameters
instead of functions which work in specific structures such as
X509_STORE_CTX_set_flags() which are likely to be deprecated in a future
release.

TLS clients are recommended to set up validation of server hostname(s)
and/or IP address (directly using the functions described in
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(3)>, or more conveniently using
L<SSL_set1_host(3)> or L<SSL_add1_host(3)>) and to use
L<SSL_set_tlsext_host_name(3)> for Server Name Indication (SNI), which
may be crucial also for correct routing of the connection request.

=head1 BUGS

Delta CRL checking is currently primitive. Only a single delta can be used and
(partly due to limitations of B<X509_STORE>) constructed CRLs are not
maintained.

If CRL checking is enabled, CRLs are expected to be available in the
corresponding B<X509_STORE> structure. No attempt is made to download
CRLs from the CRL distribution points extension.

The B<X509_TRUST_*> selectors used by X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_trust() are
deceptively named: although each mirrors a PKIX extended key usage, the
selector does not check that B<extKeyUsage>. It matches only auxiliary
trust information that is never carried in the certificate itself but
must be attached to the in-memory B<X509> object by the application;
absent that, the selector has no effect. Use
X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_purpose() to constrain a certificate by its
extended key usage instead.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Enable CRL checking when performing certificate verification during SSL
connections associated with an B<SSL_CTX> structure I<ctx>:

 X509_VERIFY_PARAM *param;

 param = X509_VERIFY_PARAM_new();
 X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_flags(param, X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK);
 SSL_CTX_set1_param(ctx, param);
 X509_VERIFY_PARAM_free(param);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SSL_CTX_set_security_level(3)>,
L<X509_verify_cert(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set1_host(3)>,
L<X509_VERIFY_PARAM_set_hostflags(3)>,
L<X509_check_host(3)>,
L<X509_check_email(3)>,
L<X509_check_ip(3)>,
L<SSL_set_tlsext_host_name(3)>,
L<openssl-x509(1)>

=head1 HISTORY

Until OpenSSL 1.1.0, by default (unless B<X509_V_FLAG_TRUSTED_FIRST> was set), when building a
certificate chain, if the first certificate chain found was not trusted,
OpenSSL would attempt to replace untrusted certificates supplied by the peer
with certificates from the trust store to see if an alternative chain can be
found that is trusted.
Since OpenSSL 1.1.0 version, the B<X509_V_FLAG_TRUSTED_FIRST> is set by default.

The B<X509_V_FLAG_NO_ALT_CHAINS> flag was added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.
The flag B<X509_V_FLAG_CB_ISSUER_CHECK> was deprecated in OpenSSL 1.1.0
and has no effect.

The function X509_VERIFY_PARAM_add0_policy() was historically documented as
enabling policy checking however the implementation has never done this.
The documentation was changed to align with the implementation.

The X509_VERIFY_PARAM_get_purpose() function was added in OpenSSL 3.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
