=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_add_value, X509V3_add_value_uchar,
X509V3_add_value_bool, X509V3_add_value_bool_nf,
X509V3_add_value_int, X509V3_conf_free
- CONF_VALUE stack utility functions for X509 extension handling

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509V3_add_value(const char *name, const char *value,
                      STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) **extlist);
 int X509V3_add_value_uchar(const char *name,
                            const unsigned char *value,
                            STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) **extlist);
 int X509V3_add_value_bool(const char *name, int asn1_bool,
                           STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) **extlist);
 int X509V3_add_value_bool_nf(const char *name, int asn1_bool,
                              STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) **extlist);
 int X509V3_add_value_int(const char *name, const ASN1_INTEGER *aint,
                          STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE) **extlist);
 void X509V3_conf_free(CONF_VALUE *val);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions manipulate B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)> structures used by
X509 v3 extension implementations. They are primarily used when writing
custom extension B<i2v> and B<v2i> methods (see L<X509V3_EXT_add(3)>).

X509V3_add_value() adds a name-value pair to the stack I<*extlist>.
If I<*extlist> is NULL, a new stack is allocated. Both I<name> and I<value>
are copied. Either may be NULL.

X509V3_add_value_uchar() is identical to X509V3_add_value() except I<value>
is an B<unsigned char> pointer.

X509V3_add_value_bool() adds a name-value pair where the value is either
"TRUE" or "FALSE" depending on whether I<asn1_bool> is nonzero or zero.

X509V3_add_value_bool_nf() is similar to X509V3_add_value_bool() but adds
nothing and returns success if I<asn1_bool> is zero. When I<asn1_bool> is
nonzero, it adds the value "TRUE".

X509V3_add_value_int() converts I<aint> to a decimal string representation
and adds it as a name-value pair. If I<aint> is NULL, nothing is added
and the function returns success.

X509V3_conf_free() frees a B<CONF_VALUE> structure and its I<name>, I<value>
and I<section> members. This function is typically used as a callback with
sk_CONF_VALUE_pop_free() to free an entire stack.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_add_value(), X509V3_add_value_uchar(), X509V3_add_value_bool(),
X509V3_add_value_bool_nf() and X509V3_add_value_int() return 1 on success
and 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_EXT_add(3)>,
L<X509V3_get_value_bool(3)>,
L<X509V3_parse_list(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
