=pod

=head1 NAME

X509_check_issued,
X509_check_akid - check if certificate is apparently issued by another one

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509_check_issued(X509 *issuer, X509 *subject);
 int X509_check_akid(const X509 *issuer, const AUTHORITY_KEYID *akid);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509_check_issued() checks if certificate I<subject> was apparently issued
using (CA) certificate I<issuer>. It checks if the issuer field of I<subject>
matches the subject field of I<issuer>. Moreover, it compares using
X509_check_akid() all sub-fields of the B<authorityKeyIdentifier> extension of
I<subject>, as far as present, with the respective B<subjectKeyIdentifier>,
serial number, and issuer fields of I<issuer>, as far as present. It also checks
if the I<subject> signature algorithm matches the I<issuer> public key algorithm
and if any B<keyUsage> field given in I<issuer> allows certificate signing.
It does not actually check the certificate signature. An error is returned
if the I<issuer> or the I<subject> are incomplete certificates.

X509_check_akid() is a more low-level function.
It assumes that the internal B<ossl_x509v3_cache_extensions()> function
(or equivalently, L<X509_check_purpose(3)> with its <id> parameter being -1)
has already been called to fill in various internal fields of I<issuer>.
It checks if all sub-fields of the authority key identifier information I<akid>,
as far as present, match the respective B<subjectKeyIdentifier> extension (if
present in I<issuer>), B<serialNumber> field, and B<issuer> fields of I<issuer>.
It returns B<X509_V_OK> if I<akid> is NULL because this means no restriction.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509_check_issued() and X509_check_akid()
return B<X509_V_OK> if all checks are successful
or some B<X509_V_ERR*> constant indicating why the issuer does not match.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509_verify_cert(3)>, L<X509_verify(3)>, L<X509_check_ca(3)>,
L<openssl-verify(1)>, L<X509_self_signed(3)>,  L<X509_check_purpose(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
