=pod

=head1 NAME

X509v3_asid_add_id_or_range, X509v3_asid_add_inherit,
X509v3_asid_canonize, X509v3_asid_is_canonical,
X509v3_asid_inherits, X509v3_asid_subset,
X509v3_asid_validate_path, X509v3_asid_validate_resource_set
- RFC 3779 autonomous system identifier delegation extension

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509v3_asid_add_id_or_range(ASIdentifiers *asid, int which,
                                 ASN1_INTEGER *min, ASN1_INTEGER *max);
 int X509v3_asid_add_inherit(ASIdentifiers *asid, int which);

 int X509v3_asid_canonize(ASIdentifiers *asid);
 int X509v3_asid_is_canonical(ASIdentifiers *asid);

 int X509v3_asid_inherits(ASIdentifiers *asid);
 int X509v3_asid_subset(ASIdentifiers *a, ASIdentifiers *b);

 int X509v3_asid_validate_path(X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);
 int X509v3_asid_validate_resource_set(STACK_OF(X509) *chain,
                                       ASIdentifiers *ext,
                                       int allow_inheritance);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions implement support for the Autonomous System Identifier
Delegation extension defined in RFC 3779 section 3. This extension is used
in Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) certificates to bind
Autonomous System (AS) numbers to the holder of the certificate, enabling
validation of BGP routing announcements.

All of these functions require OpenSSL to be built with RFC 3779 support
(enabled by default; disabled with B<OPENSSL_NO_RFC3779>).

The AS identifier data is represented using the B<ASIdentifiers> structure,
which contains two optional components: I<asnum> for Autonomous System
Numbers and I<rdi> for Routing Domain Identifiers. Each component can
either specify an explicit set of AS numbers (or ranges) or indicate
inheritance from the issuing certificate.

=head2 Construction Functions

X509v3_asid_add_id_or_range() adds an AS number or range to I<asid>.
The I<which> parameter selects the component: B<V3_ASID_ASNUM> (0) for
Autonomous System Numbers or B<V3_ASID_RDI> (1) for Routing Domain
Identifiers. The I<min> parameter specifies the AS number to add. If
I<max> is NULL, a single AS number is added; if I<max> is not NULL,
a range from I<min> to I<max> is added. On success, ownership of I<min>
and I<max> is transferred to the B<ASIdentifiers> structure; the caller
must not free them.

X509v3_asid_add_inherit() adds an inheritance marker to I<asid> for the
component specified by I<which> (B<V3_ASID_ASNUM> or B<V3_ASID_RDI>).
When a component is marked as inherited, the certificate inherits its
AS identifier resources from its issuer during path validation.

A component cannot have both an inheritance marker and explicit AS
number entries.

=head2 Canonical Form

X509v3_asid_is_canonical() checks whether I<asid> is in canonical form
as defined by RFC 3779. In canonical form, AS numbers and ranges are
sorted, non-overlapping, non-adjacent (adjacent entries must be merged),
and ranges must contain more than one AS number.

X509v3_asid_canonize() converts I<asid> into canonical form. This involves
sorting entries, merging adjacent entries, and detecting errors such as
overlapping ranges.

=head2 Inheritance and Subset Tests

X509v3_asid_inherits() returns 1 if either the I<asnum> or I<rdi>
component of I<asid> uses inheritance, and 0 otherwise.

X509v3_asid_subset() tests whether the AS identifier set I<a> is a subset
of the AS identifier set I<b>. Both I<a> and I<b> must not use inheritance.
Returns 1 if I<a> is a subset of I<b>, and 0 otherwise.

=head2 Path Validation

X509v3_asid_validate_path() performs RFC 3779 section 3.3 path validation
on the certificate chain in I<ctx>. This verifies that every certificate
in the chain only claims AS identifier resources that are contained in its
issuer's AS identifier resources, and that the trust anchor does not use
inheritance. This function is called automatically during certificate
verification when the appropriate verification flags are set.

X509v3_asid_validate_resource_set() tests whether the certificate chain
I<chain> covers the AS identifier resources in I<ext>. If
I<allow_inheritance> is 0, the function rejects extensions that use
inheritance. This function can be used to verify that a specific set of
AS identifiers is covered by a certificate chain without requiring a full
B<X509_STORE_CTX>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509v3_asid_add_id_or_range() and X509v3_asid_add_inherit() return 1 on
success and 0 on error.

X509v3_asid_is_canonical() returns 1 if I<asid> is in canonical form and
0 otherwise. A NULL I<asid> is considered canonical.

X509v3_asid_canonize() returns 1 on success and 0 on error (for example,
if the input contains overlapping ranges).

X509v3_asid_inherits() returns 1 if either component uses inheritance,
and 0 otherwise. Returns 0 if I<asid> is NULL.

X509v3_asid_subset() returns 1 if I<a> is a subset of I<b>, and 0
otherwise. Returns 1 if I<a> is NULL, and 0 if either set uses
inheritance.

X509v3_asid_validate_path() and X509v3_asid_validate_resource_set()
return 1 if validation succeeds and 0 if it fails. On failure,
X509v3_asid_validate_path() sets the error code in I<ctx>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509v3_addr_add_prefix(3)>,
L<X509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<X509_STORE_CTX_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.8e.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
