=pod

=head1 NAME

X509V3_EXT_add, X509V3_EXT_add_list, X509V3_EXT_add_alias,
X509V3_EXT_get, X509V3_EXT_get_nid,
X509V3_EXT_cleanup, X509V3_add_standard_extensions
- custom X509 extension registration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509v3.h>

 int X509V3_EXT_add(X509V3_EXT_METHOD *ext);
 int X509V3_EXT_add_list(X509V3_EXT_METHOD *extlist);
 int X509V3_EXT_add_alias(int nid_to, int nid_from);

 const X509V3_EXT_METHOD *X509V3_EXT_get(X509_EXTENSION *ext);
 const X509V3_EXT_METHOD *X509V3_EXT_get_nid(int nid);

 void X509V3_EXT_cleanup(void);
 int X509V3_add_standard_extensions(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

X509V3_EXT_add() adds the custom extension method I<ext> to the internal list
of extension methods. After calling this function, the extension can be
used with all the standard extension functions such as
L<X509V3_EXT_nconf(3)> and L<X509V3_EXT_print(3)>.
The I<ext> structure should remain valid until X509V3_EXT_cleanup() is called.

X509V3_EXT_add_list() adds an array of extension methods to the internal list.
The array I<extlist> must be terminated by an entry with B<ext_nid> set to -1.

X509V3_EXT_add_alias() creates a new extension method that is identical in
ASN.1 structure and handling to the existing extension identified by
I<nid_from>, but uses the extension OID identified by I<nid_to>. This is
useful when an extension has the same structure as an existing one but uses
a different OID.

X509V3_EXT_get() returns the extension method for the extension I<ext>,
or NULL if the extension is not supported.

X509V3_EXT_get_nid() returns the extension method for the extension
identified by I<nid>, or NULL if the extension is not supported. This
function first searches the built-in standard extensions, then searches
any custom extensions added with X509V3_EXT_add().

X509V3_EXT_cleanup() frees all custom extension methods that were added
with X509V3_EXT_add(), X509V3_EXT_add_list() or X509V3_EXT_add_alias().
The standard built-in extensions are not affected. This function should be
called during application cleanup if any custom extensions were registered.

X509V3_add_standard_extensions() is a legacy function that does nothing
and always returns 1. It is retained for compatibility only. In older
versions of OpenSSL, it was necessary to call this function to register
the standard extensions. This is no longer required.

=head1 THE X509V3_EXT_METHOD STRUCTURE

The B<X509V3_EXT_METHOD> structure contains the following function pointers
and fields used to handle an extension:

 struct v3_ext_method {
     int ext_nid;
     int ext_flags;
     ASN1_ITEM_EXP *it;
     X509V3_EXT_NEW ext_new;
     X509V3_EXT_FREE ext_free;
     X509V3_EXT_D2I d2i;
     X509V3_EXT_I2D i2d;
     /* ... */
     X509V3_EXT_I2S i2s;
     X509V3_EXT_S2I s2i;
     X509V3_EXT_I2V i2v;
     X509V3_EXT_V2I v2i;
     X509V3_EXT_I2R i2r;
     X509V3_EXT_R2I r2i;
     void *usr_data;
 };

I<ext_nid> is the NID of the extension's object identifier.

I<ext_flags> may include B<X509V3_EXT_MULTILINE> to indicate that the
extension should be printed on multiple lines, or B<X509V3_EXT_DYNAMIC>
which is set internally for dynamically allocated methods.

I<it> is an optional pointer to an ASN.1 item definition. If set, the
I<d2i>, I<i2d>, I<ext_new> and I<ext_free> fields are ignored and
the ASN.1 item is used for encoding and decoding instead.

I<usr_data> is an extension-specific pointer that can be used to share
a single set of functions between extensions with different data.

The I<i2s>/I<s2i>, I<i2v>/I<v2i>, and I<i2r>/I<r2i> pairs handle
different levels of complexity:

=over 4

=item I<i2s>/I<s2i>

For simple string extensions. I<i2s> converts the internal structure to
a string, I<s2i> converts a string to the internal structure.

=item I<i2v>/I<v2i>

For multi-valued extensions using B<STACK_OF(CONF_VALUE)>.

=item I<i2r>/I<r2i>

For raw extensions that handle their own I/O. I<i2r> writes directly to
a B<BIO>, I<r2i> can access the configuration database via the B<X509V3_CTX>.

=back

At most one I<i2X> function and one I<X2i> function should be set; the
rest should be NULL. The types used for input and output do not need to match.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

X509V3_EXT_add(), X509V3_EXT_add_list() and X509V3_EXT_add_alias() return 1
on success and 0 on error.

X509V3_EXT_get() and X509V3_EXT_get_nid() return a pointer to the extension
method or NULL if the extension is not found.

X509V3_add_standard_extensions() always returns 1.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<X509V3_EXT_nconf(3)>,
L<X509V3_EXT_print(3)>,
L<X509V3_get_d2i(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions have been available since OpenSSL 0.9.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
