=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY-SM2, EVP_KEYMGMT-SM2, SM2
- EVP_PKEY keytype support for the Chinese SM2 signature and encryption algorithms

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<SM2> algorithm was first defined by the Chinese national standard C<GM/T
0003-2012> and was later standardized by ISO as ISO/IEC 14888.
B<SM2> is an elliptic curve-based algorithm.
Its implementation in OpenSSL supports both signature and encryption schemes
via the EVP interface.
Under the name C<curveSM2> it also supports C<ECDH over SM2> as described in
L<EVP_KEYEXCH-ECDH(7)>.

The B<SM2> signature algorithm takes an optional I<distinguishing identifier>
parameter (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_DIST_ID>), which is used as part of a message
prefix before hashing with B<SM3>.
As specified in L<RFC 8998|https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8998.html>,
when B<SM2> is used as part of the B<sm2sig_sm3> TLS signature scheme,
this identifier must be set to the constant string C<TLSv1.3+GM+Cipher+Suite>.
The OpenSSL TLS stack passes a protocol version parameter
(B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_TLS_VERSION>) to the signature algorithm, which then
in the case of B<SM2> internally sets the distinguishing identifier to the
expected constant.
When B<SM2> is used for other purposes (e.g. in certificate signing or
verification), and no explicit value of the distinguishing identifier is
specified, a default value of C<1234567812345678> is used.

An explicit empty distinguishing identifier value may need to be used to verify
or create signatures that are compatible with versions of OpenSSL prior to 4.0.
With the commandline tools an empty value can be specified with the use of
either the B<-pkeyopt> (L<openssl-pkeyutl(1)>) or B<-sigopt>
(L<openssl-dgst(1)>) option with a value of C<distid:>.

=head2 Common SM2 parameters

SM2 uses the parameters defined in L<EVP_PKEY-EC(7)/Common EC parameters>.
The following parameters are different:

=over 4

=item "cofactor" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_EC_COFACTOR>) <unsigned integer>

This parameter is ignored for B<SM2>.

=item (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_DEFAULT_DIGEST>) <UTF8 string>

Getter that returns the default digest name.
(Currently returns "SM3" as of OpenSSL 3.0).

=back

=head1 NOTES

B<SM2> signatures can be generated by using the 'DigestSign' series of APIs, for
instance, EVP_DigestSignInit(), EVP_DigestSignUpdate() and EVP_DigestSignFinal().
Ditto for the verification process by calling the 'DigestVerify' series of APIs.
Note that the SM2 algorithm requires the presence of the public key for signatures,
as such the B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_PUB_KEY> option must be set on any key used in signature
generation.

Before computing an B<SM2> signature, an B<EVP_PKEY_CTX> needs to be created,
and an B<SM2> ID must be set for it, like this:

 EVP_PKEY_CTX_set1_id(pctx, id, id_len);

Before calling the EVP_DigestSignInit() or EVP_DigestVerifyInit() functions,
that B<EVP_PKEY_CTX> should be assigned to the B<EVP_MD_CTX>, like this:

 EVP_MD_CTX_set_pkey_ctx(mctx, pctx);

There is normally no need to pass a B<pctx> parameter to EVP_DigestSignInit()
or EVP_DigestVerifyInit() in such a scenario.

SM2 can be tested with the L<openssl-speed(1)> application since version 3.0.
Currently, the only valid algorithm name is B<sm2>.

Since version 3.0, SM2 keys can be generated and loaded only when the domain
parameters specify the SM2 elliptic curve.

=head1 EXAMPLES

This example demonstrates the calling sequence for using an B<EVP_PKEY> to verify
a message with the SM2 signature algorithm and the SM3 hash algorithm:

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 /* obtain an EVP_PKEY using whatever methods... */
 mctx = EVP_MD_CTX_new();
 pctx = EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(pkey, NULL);
 EVP_PKEY_CTX_set1_id(pctx, id, id_len);
 EVP_MD_CTX_set_pkey_ctx(mctx, pctx);
 EVP_DigestVerifyInit(mctx, NULL, EVP_sm3(), NULL, pkey);
 EVP_DigestVerifyUpdate(mctx, msg, msg_len);
 EVP_DigestVerifyFinal(mctx, sig, sig_len)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)>,
L<EVP_DigestSignInit(3)>,
L<EVP_DigestVerifyInit(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_CTX_set1_id(3)>,
L<EVP_MD_CTX_set_pkey_ctx(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

Support for the B<sm2sig_sm3> TLS signature scheme was added in OpenSSL 4.0.

The default value of the SM2 distinguishing identifier changed from empty to
C<1234567812345678> as of OpenSSL 4.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018-2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
