=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY-HSS, EVP_KEYMGMT-HSS, HSS
- EVP_PKEY Hierarchical Signature System (HSS) keytype and algorithm support

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<HSS> keytype is implemented in OpenSSL's default provider.
Due to the stateful nature of B<HSS> keys only signature verification is
supported in OpenSSL. This means that only B<HSS> public keys are supported.

=head2 Background information related to HSS trees

B<HSS> uses up to 8 levels of B<LMS> trees. If a single level tree is required
then B<EVP_PKEY-LMS(7)> may be used instead.

The height of each LMS tree is one of 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and corresponds to 2^h
leaf nodes for a single tree.
If a tree has 2 levels of 10 and 5 for example this would correspond to
having 1024 (2^10) leaf nodes in the top tree, and each of these leaf nodes
would then have 32 (2^5) child leaf nodes, which gives a total of 32*1024 nodes.
Note that for each level there is only one 'active' LMS tree and we only need to
generate a new active tree if the current 'active' tree is exhausted.
Once the top level tree is exhausted no more signatures can be produced.
The nodes of the leaf tree are used for signing and they are only allowed to be
used one time (OTS). Reusing a signature is a security issue. To implement this
the node index 'state' must be stored in the private key and updated each time
a signature is generated.

The root of each LMS tree contains the public key, and this public key is
calculated from a hash of its children. To compute the public key of a LMS
tree all leaf node keypairs in a LMS tree are required to be generated.
The root node of the root LMS tree contains the overall public key that is
the public key used for verification purposes.
Generated signature data consists of encoded public keys for intermediate
LMS trees as well as signatures that uses the private key of the parent to sign
the public encoded keys. The final embedded signature uses the current leaf LMS
tree nodes private key to sign a message.

=head2 Common HSS parameters

A HSS public key consists of the depth of the tree as well as an XDR encoding
of the key (i.e. it is not ASN1 format),
The following parameters are used by EVP_PKEY_fromdata() and by the
HSS keymanager for import and export.

=over 4

=item "l" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_HSS_L>) <unsigned integer>

The number of layers of LMS trees in the hierarchy ranging from 1 to 8.

=item "encoded-pub-key" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_ENCODED_PUBLIC_KEY>) <octet string>

When used for loading an encoded HSS public key using EVP_PKEY_fromdata() the
public key encoding includes the "l" value.
Within the HSS keymanager when used for import and export this encoding is just
the LMS public key encoding excluding the "l" value.

=back

=head1 CONFORMING TO

=over 4

=item RFC 8554

Leighton-Micali Hash-Based Signatures

=item NIST SP 800-208

Recommendation for Stateful Hash-Based Signature Schemes

=item CSNA 2.0

Commercial National Security Algorithm Suite

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

NOTE error checking has been omitted in these examples

An B<EVP_PKEY> context can be obtained by calling:

    EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx = EVP_PKEY_CTX_new_from_name(NULL, "HSS", NULL);


 A HSS B<EVP_PKEY> public key can be loaded from a BIO object by calling:

     EVP_PKEY *pkey = NULL;
     OSSL_DECODER_CTX *dctx = NULL;
     int selection = OSSL_KEYMGMT_SELECT_PUBLIC_KEY;

     dctx = OSSL_DECODER_CTX_new_for_pkey(&pkey, "XDR", NULL,
                                          "HSS", selection, libctx, propq);
     ret = OSSL_DECODER_from_bio(dctx, bio);
     OSSL_DECODER_CTX_free(dctx);

A HSS B<EVP_PKEY> public key can be loaded from XDR encoded data by calling:

    EVP_PKEY *key = NULL;
    OSSL_PARAM params[2];

    params[0] =
        OSSL_PARAM_construct_octet_string(OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_ENCODED_PUBLIC_KEY,
                                          (unsigned char *)data, datalen);
    params[1] = OSSL_PARAM_construct_end();
    ret = EVP_PKEY_fromdata_init(ctx)
    ret = EVP_PKEY_fromdata(ctx, &key, EVP_PKEY_PUBLIC_KEY, params);

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY-LMS(7)>,
L<EVP_KEYMGMT(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY(3)>,
L<provider-keymgmt(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality was added in OpenSSL 3.5.0

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
