=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_RAND-HMAC-DRBG-DETERMINISTIC
- The HMAC DRBG DETERMINISTIC EVP_RAND implementation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Support for the HMAC deterministic generator through the B<EVP_RAND> API. This
is a variant of L<EVP_RAND-HMAC-DRBG(7)> that uses fixed values for its entropy
and nonce values. It does not use a parent to supply its entropy and does not
handle reseeding. It also ignores checks related to security strength and
minimum lengths for entropy and nonce. This is used to generate deterministic
nonce values required by ECDSA and DSA (as defined in RFC 6979).

=head2 Identity

"HMAC-DRBG-DETERMINISTIC" is the name for this implementation; it can be used
with the EVP_RAND_fetch() function.

=head2 Supported parameters

The supported parameters are:

=over 4

=item "state" (B<OSSL_RAND_PARAM_STATE>) <integer>

=item "properties" (B<OSSL_DRBG_PARAM_PROPERTIES>) <UTF8 string>

=item "mac" (B<OSSL_DRBG_PARAM_MAC>) <UTF8 string>

=item "digest" (B<OSSL_DRBG_PARAM_DIGEST>) <UTF8 string>

These parameters work as described in L<EVP_RAND(3)/PARAMETERS>.

=item "test_entropy" (B<OSSL_RAND_PARAM_TEST_ENTROPY>) <octet string>

Sets the deterministic entropy bytes supplied to the generators instantiate.

=item "test_nonce" (B<OSSL_RAND_PARAM_TEST_NONCE>) <octet string>

Sets the deterministic nonce bytes supplied to the generators instantiate.

=back

=head1 NOTES

A context for HMAC DRBG DETERMINISTIC can be obtained by calling:

 EVP_RAND *rand = EVP_RAND_fetch(NULL, "HMAC-DRBG-DETERMINISTIC", NULL);
 EVP_RAND_CTX *rctx = EVP_RAND_CTX_new(rand, NULL);

=head1 CONFORMING TO

RFC 6979

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_RAND(3)>,
L<EVP_RAND(3)/PARAMETERS>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2022 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
