=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_CIPHER-ASCON-AEAD128 - The Ascon-AEAD128 EVP_CIPHER implementations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Support for Ascon-AEAD128 (NIST SP 800-232) symmetric authenticated encryption
using the B<EVP_CIPHER> API

=head2 Algorithm Names

The following algorithms are available in the default provider:

=over 4

=item "ASCON-AEAD128"

=item "ascon-aead128"

=back

=head2 Parameters

This implementation supports the parameters described in L<EVP_EncryptInit(3)/PARAMETERS>.

=head1 NOTES

Ascon-AEAD128 is the NIST-standardized authenticated encryption algorithm
specified in NIST SP 800-232. It is based on the Ascon128a variant of the Ascon
family of algorithms, suitable for lightweight and constrained environments.

The algorithm supports associated data (AAD) that is authenticated but not
encrypted. AAD can be provided before encryption/decryption operations begin.

Ascon-AEAD128 uses a 128-bit key, 128-bit nonce, and produces a 128-bit
authentication tag. The implementation processes data in 128-bit (16-byte) blocks
using the Ascon-p[8] permutation for data processing and Ascon-p[12] for
initialization and finalization.

=head1 CONFORMING TO

=over 4

=item NIST SP 800-232

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<provider-cipher(7)>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER-default(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

Ascon-AEAD128 was added in OpenSSL 4.X

This implementation conforms to the NIST SP 800-232 specification for
Ascon-AEAD128, which defines the authenticated encryption scheme using the
Ascon128a algorithm variant. The NIST draft specification used the Ascon128 algorithm variant.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

