=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_MD-ASCON-CXOF128 - The Ascon-CXOF128 EVP_MD implementation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Support for computing Ascon-CXOF128 digests through the B<EVP_MD> API.

Ascon-CXOF128 is a Customizable Extendable Output Function (CXOF) that can
produce output of any desired length. It supports a customization string that
allows domain separation and application-specific customization.

=head2 Algorithm Names

The following algorithms are available in the default provider:

=over 4

=item "ASCON-CXOF128"

=item "ascon-cxof128"

=back

=head2 Parameters

This implementation supports the following L<OSSL_PARAM(3)> entries:

=over 4

=item "custom" (B<OSSL_DIGEST_PARAM_CUSTOM>) <octet string>

Sets the customization string for the CXOF. This parameter must be set before
calling EVP_DigestInit_ex2() or during initialization. The customization string
can be up to 256 bytes in length.

=item "xoflen" (B<OSSL_DIGEST_PARAM_XOFLEN>) <unsigned integer>

Sets or Gets the digest length for extendable output functions.
The length of the "xoflen" parameter should not exceed that of a B<size_t>.

The ASCON-CXOF128 implementation does not have any default digest length.

This parameter must be set before calling either EVP_DigestFinal_ex() or
EVP_DigestFinal(), since these functions were not designed to handle variable
length output. It is recommended to either use EVP_DigestSqueeze() or
EVP_DigestFinalXOF() instead.

=item "size" (B<OSSL_DIGEST_PARAM_SIZE>) <unsigned integer>

An alias of "xoflen".

=back

See L<EVP_DigestInit(3)/PARAMETERS> for further information related to parameters

=head1 NOTES

Ascon-CXOF128 is the NIST-standardized customizable extendable output function
specified in NIST SP 800-232. It is based on the Ascon family of algorithms,
suitable for lightweight and constrained environments.

Ascon-CXOF128 uses the Ascon-p[12] permutation and can produce output of any
desired length. The implementation processes data in 8-byte blocks. The
customization string allows for domain separation and application-specific
customization, enabling different applications to use the same algorithm with
different outputs.

The customization string must be set before initialization. It can be provided
via the "custom" parameter when calling EVP_DigestInit_ex2().

For ASCON-CXOF128, to ensure the maximum security strength of 128 bits, the output
length passed to EVP_DigestFinalXOF() should be at least 16.

=head1 CONFORMING TO

=over 4

=item NIST SP 800-232

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_MD_CTX_set_params(3)>, L<provider-digest(7)>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER-default(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

Ascon-CXOF128 was added in OpenSSL 4.X

This implementation conforms to the NIST SP 800-232 specification for
Ascon-CXOF128.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

