=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_SIGNATURE-ML-DSA,
EVP_SIGNATURE-ML-DSA-44, EVP_SIGNATURE-ML-DSA-65, EVP_SIGNATURE-ML-DSA-87,
- EVP_SIGNATURE ML-DSA support

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ML-DSA signature schemes are described in L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final>.
There are 2 types:

=over 4

=item Pure ML-DSA B<ML-DSA>

L<EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch(3)> can be used to explicitly fetch one of
"ML-DSA-44", "ML-DSA-65" or "ML-DSA-87".

Pure signature operations use
L<EVP_PKEY_sign_message_init(3)> and L<EVP_PKEY_sign(3)> or
L<EVP_PKEY_verify_message_init(3)> and L<EVP_PKEY_verify(3)> to perform
one-shot message signing or signature verification.

Pure B<ML-DSA> Signature Generation encodes the message internally as
0x00 || len(ctx) || ctx || message.
where B<ctx> is some optional value of size 0x00..0xFF.  This process is
defined in L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final> Algorithm 2
step 10 and Algorithm 3 step 5.
OpenSSL also allows the message to not be encoded which is required for
testing.

=item Prehash ML-DSA B<HASHML-DSA>

This variant passes a hash of the message to the sign/verify operations.

L<EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch(3)> can be used to explicitly fetch one of
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHA256", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHA256", "HASHML-DSA-87-SHA256",
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHA512", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHA512", "HASHML-DSA-87-SHA512",
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHA3-256", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHA3-256", "HASHML-DSA-87-SHA3-256",
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHA3-512", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHA3-512", "HASHML-DSA-87-SHA3-512",
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHAKE128", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHAKE128", "HASHML-DSA-87-SHAKE128",
"HASHML-DSA-44-SHAKE256", "HASHML-DSA-65-SHAKE256" or "HASHML-DSA-87-SHAKE256",

The digest used to hash the message must match the fetched signature name digest
e.g. B<SHA256> for B<ML-DSA-44-SHA256>.

Prehash signature operations use L<EVP_PKEY_sign_init(3)> and L<EVP_PKEY_sign(3)>,
or L<EVP_PKEY_verify_init(3)> and L<EVP_PKEY_verify(3)> to perform
one-shot message signing or signature verification.

Prehash B<HashML-DSA> Signature Generation encodes the digest of the message as,
0x01 || len(ctx) || ctx || digest_OID || digested_message.

=back

There 3 EVP_PKEY types B<ML-DSA-44>, B<ML-DSA-65> and B<ML-DSA-87> are used
for the above signature schemes. A single ML-DSA keypair should only be used
for either B<ML-DSA> OR B<HashML-DSA> signature operations.

The different algorithms names correspond to the parameter sets defined in
L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final> Section 4 Table 1.
(The signatures range in size from ~2.5K to ~4.5K depending on the type chosen).
There are 3 different security categories also depending on the type.

=head2 ML-DSA Signature Parameters

The following parameter can be used for both signing and verification.
it may be set by passing an OSSL_PARAM array to L<EVP_PKEY_sign_message_init(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_verify_message_init(3)>, L<EVP_PKEY_sign_init(3)> or
L<EVP_PKEY_verify_init(3)>

=over 4

=item "context-string" (B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_CONTEXT_STRING>) <octet string>

A string of octets with length at most 255. By default it is the empty string.

=back

The following parameters can be used by both B<ML-DSA> and B<HashML-DSA>:
They can be set by passing an OSSL_PARAM array to either
L<EVP_PKEY_sign_message_init(3)>, L<EVP_PKEY_verify_message_init(3)> for B<ML-DSA>,
or by L<EVP_PKEY_sign_init_ex2(3)>, L<EVP_PKEY_verify_init_ex2(3)> for B<HashML-DSA>,

=over 4

=item "test-entropy" (B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_TEST_ENTROPY>) <octet string>

Used for testing to pass an optional deterministic per message random value.
If set the size must be 32 bytes.

=item "deterministic" (B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_DETERMINISTIC>) <integer>

=back

The default value of 0 causes the per message randomness to be randomly
generated using a DRBG. Setting this to 1 causes the per message randomness
to be set to 32 bytes of zeros. This value is ignored if "test-entropy" is set.

The following parameters can be used only for Pure ML-DSA signing:
They can be set by passing an OSSL_PARAM array to either
L<EVP_PKEY_sign_message_init(3)> or L<EVP_PKEY_verify_message_init(3)>.

=over 4

=item "message-encoding" (B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_MESSAGE_ENCODING>) <integer>

The default value of 1 uses 'Pure ML-DSA Signature Generation' as described
above. Setting it to 0 does not encode the message, which is used for testing.
The message encoding steps are defined in
L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final> Algorithm 2 step 10 and
Algorithm 3 step 5.

=item "mu" (B<OSSL_SIGNATURE_PARAM_MU>) <integer>

The default value of 0 causes sign and verify operations to process a raw message.
Setting this to 1 causes those operations to assume the input is the C<mu> value
from L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final> Algorithm 7 step 6 and
Algorithm 8 step 7.

Note that the message encoding steps from
L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final> Algorithm 2 step 10 and
Algorithm 3 step 5 are omitted when this setting is 1.

=back

See L<EVP_PKEY-ML-DSA(7)> for information related to B<ML-DSA> keys.

=head1 NOTES

For backwards compatibility reasons EVP_DigestSignInit_ex(), EVP_DigestSign(),
EVP_DigestVerifyInit_ex() and EVP_DigestVerify() may also be used, but the digest
passed in I<mdname> must be NULL.

=head1 EXAMPLES

To sign a message using an ML-DSA EVP_PKEY structure:

    void do_sign(EVP_PKEY *key, unsigned char *msg, size_t msg_len)
    {
        size_t sig_len;
        unsigned char *sig = NULL;
        const OSSL_PARAM params[] = {
            OSSL_PARAM_octet_string("context-string", (unsigned char *)"A context string", 16),
            OSSL_PARAM_END
        };
        EVP_PKEY_CTX *sctx = EVP_PKEY_CTX_new_from_pkey(NULL, pkey, NULL);
        EVP_SIGNATURE *sig_alg = EVP_SIGNATURE_fetch(NULL, "ML-DSA-65", NULL);

        EVP_PKEY_sign_message_init(sctx, sig_alg, params);
        /* Calculate the required size for the signature by passing a NULL buffer. */
        EVP_PKEY_sign(sctx, NULL, &sig_len, msg, msg_len);
        sig = OPENSSL_zalloc(sig_len);
        EVP_PKEY_sign(sctx, sig, &sig_len, msg, msg_len);
        ...
        OPENSSL_free(sig);
        EVP_SIGNATURE_free(sig_alg);
        EVP_PKEY_CTX_free(sctx);
    }

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY-ML-DSA(7)>
L<provider-signature(7)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_sign(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_verify(3)>,
L<FIPS 204|https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final>

=head1 HISTORY

<ML-DSA> signature support was added in OpenSSL 3.5.
<HashML-DSA> signature support was added in OpenSSL 4.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
