=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY-DSA, EVP_KEYMGMT-DSA, EVP_PKEY-DH, EVP_KEYMGMT-DH
- EVP_PKEY DSA and DH keytype and algorithm support

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<DSA> and B<DH> keytypes are implemented in OpenSSL's default and FIPS
providers.
The implementations support the basic DSA and DH keys, containing the public
and private keys I<pub> and I<priv> as well as the three domain parameters
I<p>, I<q> and I<g>.

=head2 Common DSA / DH parameters

In addition to the common parameters that all keytypes should support (see
L<provider-keymgmt(7)/Common parameters>), the B<DSA> and B<DH> keytype
implementations support the following.

=over 4

=item "pub" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_PUB_KEY>) <unsigned integer>

The public key value.

=item "priv" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_PRIV_KEY>) <unsigned integer>

The private key value.

=item "p" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_FFC_P>) <unsigned integer>

A DSA or Diffie-Hellman "p" value.

=item "q" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_FFC_Q>) <unsigned integer>

A DSA or Diffie-Hellman "q" value.

=item "g" (B<OSSL_PKEY_PARAM_FFC_G>) <unsigned integer>

A DSA or Diffie-Hellman "g" value.

=back

=head1 CONFORMING TO

[TBA]

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_KEYMGMT(3)>, L<EVP_PKEY(3)>, L<provider-keymgmt(7)>,
L<OSSL_PROVIDER-default(7)>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER-FIPS(7)>,
L<EVP_SIGNATURE-DSA(7)>, L<EVP_KEYEXCH-DH(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
