=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_KDF_SCRYPT - The scrypt EVP_KDF implementation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Support for computing the B<scrypt> password-based KDF through the B<EVP_KDF>
API.

The EVP_KDF_SCRYPT algorithm implements the scrypt password-based key
derivation function, as described in RFC 7914.  It is memory-hard in the sense
that it deliberately requires a significant amount of RAM for efficient
computation. The intention of this is to render brute forcing of passwords on
systems that lack large amounts of main memory (such as GPUs or ASICs)
computationally infeasible.

scrypt provides three work factors that can be customized: N, r and p. N, which
has to be a positive power of two, is the general work factor and scales CPU
time in an approximately linear fashion. r is the block size of the internally
used hash function and p is the parallelization factor. Both r and p need to be
greater than zero. The amount of RAM that scrypt requires for its computation
is roughly (128 * N * r * p) bytes.

In the original paper of Colin Percival ("Stronger Key Derivation via
Sequential Memory-Hard Functions", 2009), the suggested values that give a
computation time of less than 5 seconds on a 2.5 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo are N =
2^20 = 1048576, r = 8, p = 1. Consequently, the required amount of memory for
this computation is roughly 1 GiB. On a more recent CPU (Intel i7-5930K at 3.5
GHz), this computation takes about 3 seconds. When N, r or p are not specified,
they default to 1048576, 8, and 1, respectively. The maximum amount of RAM that
may be used by scrypt defaults to 1025 MiB.

=head2 Numeric identity

B<EVP_KDF_SCRYPT> is the numeric identity for this implementation; it
can be used with the EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id() function.

=head2 Supported controls

The supported controls are:

=over 4

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_PASS>

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SALT>

These controls work as described in L<EVP_KDF_CTX(3)/CONTROLS>.

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_N>

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_R>

=item B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_P>

B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_N> expects one argument: C<uint64_t N>

B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_R> expects one argument: C<uint32_t r>

B<EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_P> expects one argument: C<uint32_t p>

These controls configure the scrypt work factors N, r and p.

EVP_KDF_ctrl_str() type strings: "N", "r" and "p", respectively.

The corresponding value strings are expected to be decimal numbers.

=back

=head1 NOTES

A context for scrypt can be obtained by calling:

 EVP_KDF_CTX *kctx = EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id(EVP_KDF_SCRYPT);

The output length of an scrypt key derivation is specified via the
B<keylen> parameter to the L<EVP_KDF_derive(3)> function.

=head1 EXAMPLE

This example derives a 64-byte long test vector using scrypt with the password
"password", salt "NaCl" and N = 1024, r = 8, p = 16.

 EVP_KDF_CTX *kctx;
 unsigned char out[64];

 kctx = EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id(EVP_KDF_SCRYPT);

 if (EVP_KDF_ctrl(kctx, EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_PASS, "password", (size_t)8) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_PASS");
 }
 if (EVP_KDF_ctrl(kctx, EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SALT, "NaCl", (size_t)4) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SALT");
 }
 if (EVP_KDF_ctrl(kctx, EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_N, (uint64_t)1024) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_N");
 }
 if (EVP_KDF_ctrl(kctx, EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_R, (uint32_t)8) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_R");
 }
 if (EVP_KDF_ctrl(kctx, EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_P, (uint32_t)16) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_CTRL_SET_SCRYPT_P");
 }
 if (EVP_KDF_derive(kctx, out, sizeof(out)) <= 0) {
     error("EVP_KDF_derive");
 }

 {
     const unsigned char expected[sizeof(out)] = {
         0xfd, 0xba, 0xbe, 0x1c, 0x9d, 0x34, 0x72, 0x00,
         0x78, 0x56, 0xe7, 0x19, 0x0d, 0x01, 0xe9, 0xfe,
         0x7c, 0x6a, 0xd7, 0xcb, 0xc8, 0x23, 0x78, 0x30,
         0xe7, 0x73, 0x76, 0x63, 0x4b, 0x37, 0x31, 0x62,
         0x2e, 0xaf, 0x30, 0xd9, 0x2e, 0x22, 0xa3, 0x88,
         0x6f, 0xf1, 0x09, 0x27, 0x9d, 0x98, 0x30, 0xda,
         0xc7, 0x27, 0xaf, 0xb9, 0x4a, 0x83, 0xee, 0x6d,
         0x83, 0x60, 0xcb, 0xdf, 0xa2, 0xcc, 0x06, 0x40
     };

     assert(!memcmp(out, expected, sizeof(out)));
 }

 EVP_KDF_CTX_free(kctx);

=head1 CONFORMING TO

RFC 7914

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_KDF_CTX>,
L<EVP_KDF_CTX_new_id(3)>,
L<EVP_KDF_CTX_free(3)>,
L<EVP_KDF_ctrl(3)>,
L<EVP_KDF_derive(3)>,
L<EVP_KDF_CTX(3)/CONTROLS>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
