=pod

=head1 NAME

opentls-env - Opentls environment variables

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Opentls libraries use environment variables to override the
compiled-in default paths for various data.
To avoid security risks, the environment is usually not consulted when
the executable is set-user-ID or set-group-ID.

=over 4

=item B<CTLOG_FILE>

Specifies the path to a certificate transparency log list.
See L<CTLOG_STORE_new(3)>.

=item B<OPENtls>

Specifies the path to the B<opentls> executable. Only used by
the B<rehash> script.
See L<opentls-rehash(1)/Script Configuration>.

=item B<OPENtls_CONF>

Specifies the path to a configuration file.
See L<opentls(1)> and L<config(5)>.

=item B<OPENtls_ENGINES>

Specifies the directory from which dynamic engines are loaded.
See L<opentls-engine(1)>.

=item B<OPENtls_MALLOC_FD>, B<OPENtls_MALLOC_FAILURES>

If built with debugging, this allows memory allocation to fail.
See L<OPENStls_malloc(3)>.

=item B<OPENtls_MODULES>

Specifies the directory from which cryptographic providers are loaded.
See L<opentls-provider(1)>.

=item B<OPENtls_WIN32_UTF8>

If set, then L<UI_Opentls(3)> returns UTF-8 encoded strings, rather than
ones encoded in the current code page, and
the L<opentls(1)> program also transcodes the command-line parameters
from the current code page to UTF-8.
This environment variable is only checked on Microsoft Windows platforms.

=item B<RANDFILE>

The state file for the random number generator.
This should not be needed in normal use.
See L<RAND_load_file(3)>.

=item B<tls_CERT_DIR>, B<tls_CERT_FILE>

Specify the default directory or file containing CA certificates.
See L<tls_CTX_load_verify_locations(3)>.

=item B<TSGET>

Additional arguments for the L<tsget(1)> command.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
