=pod

=head1 NAME

OPENSSL_CONF, OPENSSL_ENGINES, OPENSSL_MODULES
- user environment for OpenSSL

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL's libraries use a small set of environment variables to get
information from the user regarding the location of certain files or
other information, when the user wants to override the internal
defaults.

All these environment variables are ignored in set-user-ID and
set-group-ID programs.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item B<OPENSSL_CONF>

The path to the config file.

=item B<OPENSSL_ENGINES>

The path to the engines directory.

=item B<OPENSSL_MODULES>

The path to the directory with OpenSSL modules, such as providers
modules.

=item B<SSL_CERT_DIR>

The path to the directory CA certificates to be verified against are
found.  This directory must have been treated with L<openssl-rehash(1)>.

=item B<SSL_CERT_FILE>

The path to a CA certificate to be loaded.

=item B<CTLOG_FILE>

The file where the CT log is to be written.

=for comment I have no idea what I'm talking about for this variable.  Please help.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl-engine(1)>,
L<openssl-provider(1)>,
L<openssl-rehash(1)>,
L<openssl(1)>,
L<ENGINE_by_id(3)>,
L<config(5)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
