=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_ENCODER_DECODER-RSA, OSSL_ENCODER-RSA, OSSL_DECODER-RSA,
OSSL_ENCODER-RSA-PSS, OSSL_DECODER-RSA-PSS
- RSA and RSA-PSS encoder and decoder

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The RSA and RSA-PSS encoder and decoder implementations are available in the
default and base providers.

=head2 Encoding

The following output types are supported by the RSA encoder:

=over 4

=item text

Human-readable text representation of the key fields.

=item DER

Binary DER encoding.

=item PEM

PEM (base64-encoded DER with header/footer) encoding.

=item MSBLOB

Microsoft BLOB format for key import/export (RSA only, not RSA-PSS).

=item PVK

Microsoft PVK format for private keys (RSA only, not RSA-PSS).

=back

The following output structures are supported:

=over 4

=item PrivateKeyInfo (PKCS#8)

Standard PKCS#8 unencrypted private key format.

=item EncryptedPrivateKeyInfo (PKCS#8)

Standard PKCS#8 encrypted private key format.
Requires a cipher to be specified via the B<cipher> parameter.

=item SubjectPublicKeyInfo

Standard X.509 public key format.

=item type-specific, rsa, pkcs1

Legacy RSA-specific format (private key and public key only).
The structure names "type-specific", "rsa", and "pkcs1" are equivalent aliases
for this format.
RSA-PSS supports "pkcs1" as an alias for its type-specific format.

=back

=head2 Decoding

The following input types are supported by the RSA decoder:

=over 4

=item DER

Binary DER input.

=item PEM

PEM input (automatically handled via the general PEM-to-DER decoder).

=item MSBLOB

Microsoft BLOB format (RSA only, not RSA-PSS).

=item PVK

Microsoft PVK format (RSA only, not RSA-PSS).

=back

The following input structures are supported for DER decoding:

=over 4

=item PrivateKeyInfo

=item SubjectPublicKeyInfo

=item type-specific, rsa

For RSA only.  The structure names "type-specific" and "rsa" are equivalent
aliases.
RSA-PSS does not support type-specific decoding.

=back

=head2 Encoder Parameters

=over 4

=item "cipher" (B<OSSL_ENCODER_PARAM_CIPHER>) <UTF8 string>

The name of the cipher to use when encrypting the private key in
EncryptedPrivateKeyInfo format.  If not specified, no encryption is performed.

=item "properties" (B<OSSL_ENCODER_PARAM_PROPERTIES>) <UTF8 string>

Property query string used when fetching the cipher.

=item "encrypt-level" (B<OSSL_ENCODER_PARAM_ENCRYPT_LEVEL>) <integer>

Encryption level for PVK output only.  The default is 2 (strongest).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY-RSA(7)>, L<provider-encoder(7)>, L<provider-decoder(7)>,
L<OSSL_PROVIDER-default(7)>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER-base(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality was added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
