=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_ENCODER_DECODER-SLH-DSA,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-128s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-128s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-128f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-128f,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-192s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-192s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-192f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-192f,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-256s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-256s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-256f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHA2-256f,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128f,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192f,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256s, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256s,
OSSL_ENCODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256f, OSSL_DECODER-SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256f
- SLH-DSA encoder and decoder

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The SLH-DSA encoder and decoder implementations cover all twelve SLH-DSA
parameter sets and are available in the default and base providers.

The supported key types are:
SLH-DSA-SHA2-128s, SLH-DSA-SHA2-128f,
SLH-DSA-SHA2-192s, SLH-DSA-SHA2-192f,
SLH-DSA-SHA2-256s, SLH-DSA-SHA2-256f,
SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128s, SLH-DSA-SHAKE-128f,
SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192s, SLH-DSA-SHAKE-192f,
SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256s and SLH-DSA-SHAKE-256f.

=head2 Encoding

The following output types are supported:

=over 4

=item text

Human-readable text representation of the key fields.

=item DER

Binary DER encoding.

=item PEM

PEM (base64-encoded DER with header/footer) encoding.

=back

The following output structures are supported:

=over 4

=item PrivateKeyInfo (PKCS#8)

Standard PKCS#8 unencrypted private key format.

=item EncryptedPrivateKeyInfo (PKCS#8)

Standard PKCS#8 encrypted private key format.
Requires a cipher to be specified via the B<cipher> parameter.

=item SubjectPublicKeyInfo

Standard X.509 public key format.

=back

=head2 Decoding

The following input types are supported:

=over 4

=item DER

Binary DER input.

=item PEM

PEM input (automatically handled via the general PEM-to-DER decoder).

=back

The following input structures are supported for DER decoding:

=over 4

=item PrivateKeyInfo

=item SubjectPublicKeyInfo

=back

=head2 Encoder Parameters

=over 4

=item "cipher" (B<OSSL_ENCODER_PARAM_CIPHER>) <UTF8 string>

The name of the cipher to use when encrypting the private key in
EncryptedPrivateKeyInfo format.  If not specified, no encryption is performed.

=item "properties" (B<OSSL_ENCODER_PARAM_PROPERTIES>) <UTF8 string>

Property query string used when fetching the cipher.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY-SLH-DSA(7)>, L<provider-encoder(7)>, L<provider-decoder(7)>,
L<OSSL_PROVIDER-default(7)>, L<OSSL_PROVIDER-base(7)>

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality was added in OpenSSL 3.5.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024-2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
