=pod

=head1 NAME

ASN1_STRING_data,
ossl-removed-api - API that has been removed from OpenSSL

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This page lists API that has been removed from OpenSSL, and when it was removed.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page documents a list of API that has been removed from
OpenSSL. Functions are not removed until they have been deprecated for
some time (Normally at least one major OpenSSL release, if not
more). This means that during at least one previous major release of
OpenSSL, deprecation warnings would have been emitted at compile time
when using this function, and the documentation would have contained
information on how to move away from the deprecated API.

Once a deprecated function is removed, The documentation for that
function will also be removed in order to keep the documentation
relevant to the current release. Normally, you should consult a
previous major release of OpenSSL where this function still existed,
and make changes to your code to no longer use the function as
documented in that release.

This includes consulting the L<ossl-guide-migration(7)> documentation.

=head1 OPENSSL 4.0

=over 4

=item ASN1_STRING_data (Deprecated in 1.1.1) - see L<ASN1_STRING_get0_data(3)>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ossl-guide-migration(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2025 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

