=pod

=head1 NAME

ossl-guide-dtlsv13 - OpenSSL DTLSv1.3

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This page provides an introduction to the DTLSv1.3 protocol.
It explains the concepts behind the protocol and how it differs
from previous versions of DTLS.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DTLSv1.3 is a version of the Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
protocol. DTLSv1.3 is defined in RFC 9147. It is based on TLSv1.3 and provides
similar security guarantees to TLSv1.3 but is designed to work over datagram
transport protocols such as UDP.

The Supported Versions extension in the ClientHello and ServerHello is updated to
include support for DTLSv1.3 by adding the value 0xFEFD to the list of supported
versions.

The TLSv1.3 state machine has been updated to support the DTLSv1.3 protocol.
The main difference in the state machine between TLSv1.3 and DTLSv1.3 is the
addition of Acknowledgement messages that are used to acknowledge the receipt of
messages in the DTLSv1.3 protocol. This allows either the client or the server
to signal to the peer that they have received and processed a handshake message.
This prevents unnecessary retransmissions of messages.

A major difference between DTLSv1.3 and DTLSv1.2 is the addition of the Unified
Header. This Unified Header is in plaintext, and it contains an encrypted sequence
number. The handshake header follows the Unified Header, and both the handshake
header and all of its contents are encrypted.

       struct {
           ContentType type;
           ProtocolVersion legacy_record_version;
           uint16 epoch_val = 0;
           uint48 sequence_number;
           uint16 length;
           opaque fragment[DTLSPlaintext.length];
       } DTLSPlaintext;

       struct {
            opaque content[DTLSPlaintext.length];
            ContentType type;
            uint8 zeros[length_of_padding];
       } DTLSInnerPlaintext;

       struct {
           opaque unified_hdr[variable];
           opaque encrypted_record[length];
       } DTLSCiphertext;

=head1 UNIFIED HEADER

The first byte of a Unified Header indicates which fields are present in the Unified Header.

       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |0|0|1|C|S|L|E E|
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | Connection ID |   Legend:
       | (if any,      |
       /  length as    /   C   - Connection ID (CID) present
       |  negotiated)  |   S   - Sequence number length
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+   L   - Length present
       |  8 or 16 bit  |   E   - Epoch
       |Sequence Number|
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | 16 bit Length |
       | (if present)  |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

When OpenSSL is generating a Unified Header it will always have Connection ID (C) set to
zero. The Sequence Number will always be set to 1, indicating a 2 byte Sequence Number.
Lastly the length bit will always be set indicating a length is present in the Unified
Header.

=head2 Epoch

The Epoch value is incremented every time the cryptographic parameters change.
ClientHello and ServerHello use an Epoch of 0. Only the client uses an Epoch of 1
when it is sending Early Data. The rest of the handshake messages use an Epoch of 2.

=head2 Encrypted Sequence Numbers

The Sequence Number in the Unified Header is encrypted. For each Epoch, it always
starts at 0, but since it is encrypted, it will not appear as zero when viewing it
on the wire. The Sequence Number increments with every new DTLSv1.3 record.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT MESSAGE

DTLSv1.3 adds explicit Acknowledgement messages to the protocol. There are also
implicit acknowledgements in DTLSv1.3. For instance, when the client receives
ServerHello, that ServerHello implicitly acknowledges the receipt of the ClientHello
message. Also, ClientFinished implicitly acknowledges the receipt of ServerFinished.
The new explicit Acknowledgement messages are used for the server to acknowledge the
receipt of the ClientFinished message. The client uses an explicit Acknowledgement
message to acknowledge the receipt of NewSessionTicket messages. Both the server and
the client use the explicit Acknowledgement to acknowledge the receipt of KeyUpdate
messages.

When the server sends data immediately after the connection is established, there is
a potential race condition where the Application Data may be received by the client
before the Acknowledgement message for the ClientFinished message is received. OpenSSL
buffers the Application Data until the Acknowledgement message is received and processed.

=head1 END OF EARLY DATA MESSAGE

In DTLSv1.3, the End of Early Data message is not sent. Instead, when the client
starts sending messages in Epoch 2, this signals to the server that the client has
finished sending Early Data.

=head1 HELLO RETRY REQUEST

For DTLSv1.3 server applications, use L<SSL_new_listener(3)> with the
B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR> flag to enable HelloRetryRequest cookie validation.
This provides connection demultiplexing for multiple clients on a single UDP socket.

Alternatively, L<SSL_stateless(3)> can be used for HelloRetryRequest cookie exchange
in simpler scenarios.

Note that L<DTLSv1_listen(3)> only supports DTLS 1.0/1.2 with HelloVerifyRequest and
cannot be used with DTLSv1.3.

=head1 DTLS LISTENER API

For DTLSv1.3 server applications that need to handle multiple clients on a single
UDP socket, the SSL Listener API provides connection demultiplexing and address
validation. Unlike L<DTLSv1_listen(3)> which only supports DTLS 1.0/1.2 with
HelloVerifyRequest, the listener API fully supports DTLSv1.3 with HelloRetryRequest
cookie validation.

Create a DTLS listener using L<SSL_new_listener(3)> with an SSL_CTX configured
for DTLS. The following flags control listener behavior:

=over 4

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_NO_VALIDATE>

Disables all address validation. The listener will not send HelloVerifyRequest
(for DTLS 1.0/1.2) or HelloRetryRequest with cookie (for DTLSv1.3). This is
faster but provides no protection against amplification attacks. Not recommended
for use in untrusted network environments.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR>

Requires HelloVerifyRequest (HVR) cookie exchange for DTLS 1.0 and DTLS 1.2
connections. This provides protection against amplification attacks for pre-1.3
DTLS versions.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR>

Requires HelloRetryRequest (HRR) cookie exchange for DTLSv1.3 connections. This
provides protection against amplification attacks for DTLSv1.3. Both
B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HVR> and B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_REQUIRE_HRR> may be
specified together to enable address validation for all supported DTLS versions.

=item B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_SINGLE_THREAD>

Specifies that the DTLS listener will operate in single-threaded mode. When this
flag is set, the listener and all connections accepted from it should only be
used from a single thread. This avoids the overhead of internal synchronization
mechanisms.

=back

By default (when B<SSL_LISTENER_FLAG_SINGLE_THREAD> is not set), the listener
initializes internal synchronization mechanisms that allow connections accepted
from the listener to be safely used from multiple threads concurrently. This
includes a notifier mechanism that enables efficient polling across threads.

After attaching a UDP socket BIO with L<SSL_set_bio(3)> and calling L<SSL_listen(3)>,
use L<SSL_accept_connection(3)> to accept incoming connections. Each accepted
connection has completed cookie validation (if required) but still requires
L<SSL_do_handshake(3)> or L<SSL_accept(3)> to complete the TLS handshake before
application data can be exchanged.

Pending connections that do not complete their handshake within the timeout period
(default 30 seconds) are automatically cleaned up. Use
L<SSL_listener_set_pending_timeout(3)> to adjust this timeout.

See L<SSL_new_listener(3)> for complete API documentation.

=head1 APPLICATION DATA

When either the DTLSv1.3 client or server is awaiting an Acknowledgement message,
Application Data will be buffered until the Acknowledgement message is received and processed.
Once either the DTLSv1.3 client or server processes the Acknowledgement message it will then
process the buffered Application Data.

Another scenario when Application Data is buffered is when multiple handshake messages like
the NewSessionTicket are received with Application Data. The Application Data will be buffered
until all the handshake messages have been processed.

=head1 SCTP

Even though DTLSv1.3 is enabled, the client will only perform a DTLSv1.2 or DTLSv1.0 handshake.
If a DTLSv1.3 over SCTP compatible client connects to an OpenSSL server, the server will
downgrade to DTLSv1.2 or earlier.

=head1 CONNECTION ID

OpenSSL does not support Connection IDs in DTLSv1.3. If a client that supports Connection
IDs connects to an OpenSSL server, the server will ignore the Connection ID and will not
include a Connection ID in its responses.

=head1 HOW TO UTILIZE DTLSV1.3 IN OPENSSL

=head2 SSL_set_min_proto_version and SSL_set_max_proto_version

Use L<SSL_set_min_proto_version(3)> and L<SSL_set_max_proto_version(3)> with the
DTLS1_3_VERSION macro to set the minimum and maximum protocol version to DTLSv1.3.

=head2 SSL_CTX_set_min_proto_version and SSL_CTX_set_max_proto_version

Use L<SSL_CTX_set_min_proto_version(3)> and L<SSL_CTX_set_max_proto_version(3)> with
the DTLS1_3_VERSION macro to set the minimum and maximum protocol version to DTLSv1.3.

=head2 s_client

Use the min_protocol and max_protocol parameters and set them to DTLSv1.3.
Use the -dtls option to specify that you want to use DTLS instead of TLS.

=head2 s_server

Use the min_protocol and max_protocol parameters and set them to DTLSv1.3.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
