=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_RBT_PROTO_type, OSSL_RBT_PROTOTYPE_STATIC, OSSL_RBT_GENERATE,
OSSL_RBT_GENERATE_STATIC, OSSL_RBT_ENTRY, OSSL_RBT_HEAD, OSSL_RBT_INITIALIZER,
OSSL_RBT_ROOT, OSSL_RBT_EMPTY, OSSL_RBT_NEXT, OSSL_RBT_PREV, OSSL_RBT_MIN,
OSSL_RBT_MAX, OSSL_RBT_FIND, OSSL_RBT_NFIND, OSSL_RBT_LEFT, OSSL_RBT_RIGHT,
OSSL_RBT_PARENT, OSSL_RBT_FOREACH, OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_SAFE,
OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE, OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE_SAFE, OSSL_RBT_INIT,
OSSL_RBT_INSERT, OSSL_RBT_REMOVE, ossl_rbtree - implementation of red-black tree

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "internal/ossl_rbtree.h"

 OSSL_RBT_PROTO_type(NAME, TYPE, FIELD, CMP);

 OSSL_RBT_PROTO_type_STATIC(NAME, TYPE, FIELD, CMP);

 OSSL_RBT_GENERATE(NAME, _type, FIELD, CMP);

 OSSL_RBT_GENERATE_STATIC(NAME, _type, FIELD, CMP);

 OSSL_RBT_ENTRY(_type);

 OSSL_RBT_HEAD(HEADNAME, _type);

 OSSL_RBT_INITIALIZER(OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_ROOT(OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 int OSSL_RBT_EMPTY(OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_NEXT(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_PREV(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_MIN(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_MAX(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_FIND(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_NFIND(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_LEFT(struct _type *elm, OSSL_RBT_ENTRY NAME);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_RIGHT(struct _type *elm, OSSL_RBT_ENTRY NAME);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_PARENT(struct _type *elm, OSSL_RBT_ENTRY NAME);

 OSSL_RBT_FOREACH(VARNAME, NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_SAFE(VARNAME, NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, TEMP_VARNAME);

 OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE(VARNAME, NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE_SAFE(VARNAME, NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, TEMP_VARNAME);

 void OSSL_RBT_INIT(OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_INSERT(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

 struct _type * OSSL_RBT_REMOVE(NAME, OSSL_RBT_HEAD *head, struct _type *elm);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These macros define data structures for red-black tree.

In the macro definitions, B<_type> is the name tag of a user defined
structure that must contain a field named B<FIELD>, of type B<OSSL_RBT_ENTRY>.
The argument B<HEADNAME> is the name tag of a user defined
structure that must be declared using the macro OSSL_RBT_HEAD().
The argument NAME has to be a unique name prefix for every
tree that is defined.

The function prototypes are declared with B<OSSL_RBT_PROTOTYPE>,
B<OSSL_RBT_GENERATE>.  See the examples below for further
explanation of how these macros are used.

A red-black tree is a binary search tree with the node color as an extra
attribute. It fulfills a set of conditions:

=over 4

=item 1. every search path from the root to a leaf consists of the same
number of black nodes,

=item 2. each red node (except for the root) has a black parent,

=item 3. each leaf node is black.

=back

Every operation on a red-black tree is bounded as O(lg n). The maximum
height of a red-black tree is 2lg (n+1).

A red-black tree is headed by a structure defined by the B<OSSL_RBT_HEAD()> macro.
A B<OSSL_RBT_HEAD> structure is declared as follows:

 OSSL_RBT_HEAD(HEADNAME, _type) head;

where B<HEADNAME> is the name of the structure to be defined, and B<struct
_type> is the type of the elements to be inserted into the tree.

The B<OSSL_RBT_ENTRY()> macro declares a structure that allows elements to be
connected in the tree.

In order to use the functions that manipulate the tree structure, their
prototypes need to be declared with the B<OSSL_RBT_PROTO_type()> macro,
where B<NAME> is a unique identifier for this
particular tree.  The B<_type> argument is the type of the structure that is
being managed by the tree. The B<FIELD> argument is the name of the element
defined by B<OSSL_RBT_ENTRY()>.

The function bodies are generated with the B<OSSL_RBT_GENERATE()> macro.
These macros take the same arguments as the
B<OSSL_RBT_PROTOTYPE()> macro, but should be used only once.

Finally, the B<CMP> argument is the name of a function used to compare
trees' nodes with each other.  The function takes two arguments of type
B<struct _type *>.  If the first argument is smaller than the second, the
function returns a value smaller than zero.  If they are equal, the
function returns zero.  Otherwise, it should return a value greater than
zero.  The compare function defines the order of the tree elements.

The B<OSSL_RBT_INIT()> macro initializes the tree referenced by head.

The red-black tree can also be initialized statically by using the
B<OSSL_RBT_INITIALIZER()> macro like this:

 OSSL_RBT_HEAD(HEADNAME, _type) head = OSSL_RBT_INITIALIZER(&head);

The B<OSSL_RBT_INSERT()> macro inserts the new element elm into the tree.  Upon
success, NULL is returned. If a matching element already exists in the
tree, the insertion is aborted, and a pointer to the existing element is
returned.

The B<OSSL_RBT_REMOVE()> macro removes the element elm from the tree pointed by
head. B<OSSL_RBT_REMOVE()> returns elm.

The B<OSSL_RBT_FIND()> and B<OSSL_RBT_NFIND()> macros can be used to find a particular
element in the tree.  B<OSSL_RBT_FIND()> finds the node with the same key as elm.
B<OSSL_RBT_NFIND()> finds the first node greater than or equal to the search key.

 struct _type find, *res;
 find.key = 30;
 res = OSSL_RBT_FIND(NAME, &head, &find);

The B<OSSL_RBT_ROOT()>, B<OSSL_RBT_MIN()>, B<OSSL_RBT_MAX()>, B<OSSL_RBT_NEXT()>, and
B<OSSL_RBT_PREV()> macros can be used to traverse the tree:

 for (np = OSSL_RBT_MIN(NAME, &head); np != NULL; np = OSSL_RBT_NEXT(NAME, &head, np))

Or, for simplicity, one can use the B<OSSL_RBT_FOREACH()> or B<OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE()>
macros:

 OSSL_RBT_FOREACH(np, NAME, &head)

The macros B<OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_SAFE()> and B<OSSL_RBT_FOREACH_REVERSE_SAFE()> traverse the
tree referenced by head in a forward or reverse direction respectively,
assigning each element in turn to np.  However, unlike their unsafe
counterparts, they permit both the removal of np as well as freeing it
from within the loop safely without interfering with the traversal.

The B<OSSL_RBT_EMPTY()> macro should be used to check whether a red-black tree is
empty.

=head1 HISTORY

The rb-tree implementation comes from David Gwynne. It can be found
here L<https://github.com/dgwynne/data-structures>. OpenSSL project
obtained a permission from David Gwynne to license his work under
Apache License 2.0

Apart from B<OSSL_RBT_> prefix the API is compatible with implementation
done by Neils Provos for OpenBSD.

The text in this manual page comes from C<tree(3)> in OpenBSD, the text was
authored by Neils Provos (according to commit history)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002 Niels Provos <provos@citi.umich.edu>
All rights reserved.

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.


Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
