OpenSSL and NIST SP 800-131A
============================

NIST periodically publishes and updates [NIST SP
800-131A](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/131/a/r2/final)
"Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic Algorithms and Key
Lengths". That document is time-dependent implementation requirements
for submissions or updates to FIPS certified cryptographic modules.

Various configure time, and runtime indicators exist to address issues
raised by this document. This reference is meant to document various
options that control OpenSSL FIPS provider behaviour of dissallowed,
legacy-only, and deprecated algorithms.

This will hopefully be a living document that can explain various
build options availalble in OpenSSL to compile a future-proof FIPS
provider without any dissallowed/legacy-only/deprecated behaviour.

NIST SP 800-131Ar2
------------------

### 1 tl;dr

`enable-fips no-des no-dsa no-ec2m disable-fips186-4-ffc enable-fips-pedanticonly`

> [!WARNING]
> Currently such configuration doesn't work yet / not yet fully merged

### 2 Encryption and Decryption Using Block Cipher Algorithms

TDEA can be disabled with `no-des` configuration option.
Skipjack not present.

### 3 Digital Signatures

DSA can be disabled using `no-dsa`.

Binary curves can be disabled using `no-ec2m`.

ECDSA & RSA mininum key sizes enforced with fips-indicator. However
legacy use is allowed.

> [!NOTE]
> Enforcing fips-indicators as implicit service indicator needs [#25276](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/25276)

Key sizes are not currently configurable for no-legacy, post-2030,
post-2035 transitions.

> [!WARNING]
> add compile time options to increase signature verification minimum thresholds

### 4 Random Bit Generation

Only Acceptable RBG present

### 5 Key Agreement Using Diffie-Hellman and MQV

FIPS 186-type domain parameters are acceptable, but can be disabled
with disable-fips186-4-ffc.

> [!NOTE]
> Pull request [#25720](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/25720) not yet merged

### 6 Key Agreement and Key Transport Using RSA

Only acceptable is supported.

### 7 Key Wrapping

TDEA can be disabled with `no-des` configuration option.

### 8 Deriving Additional Keys from a Cryptographic Key

TDEA can be disabled with `no-des` configuration option.

### 9 Hash Functions

> [!WARNING]
> Need to add compile time options to disable SHA-1

### 10 Message Authentication Codes (MACs)

TDEA can be disabled with `no-des` configuration option.
