=pod

=head1 NAME

genrsa - generate an RSA private key


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<genrsa>
[B<-out filename>]
[B<-des>]
[B<-des3>]
[B<-idea>]
[B<-f4>]
[B<-3>]
[B<-rand file:file>]
[B<numbits>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<genrsa> command generates an RSA private key.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-des|-des3|-idea>

These options encrypt the private key with the DES, triple DES, or the 
IDEA ciphers respectively before outputting it. A pass phrase is prompted for.
If none of these options is specified no encryption is used.

=item B<-F4|-3>

the public exponent to use, either 65537 or 3. The default is 65537.

=item B<-rand file:file>

a file or files containing random data used to seed the random number
generator. Multiple files can be specified separated by B<:>.

=item B<numbits>

the size of the private key to generate in bits. This must be the last option
specified. The default is 512.

=back

=head1 NOTES

RSA private key generation essentially involves the generation of two prime
numbers. When generating a private key various symbols will be output to
indicate the progress of the generation. A B<.> represents each number tested.
A B<+> means a number has passed a single primality test. A newline means that
the number has passed all the prime tests (currently set to 5 single tests).

Because key generation is a random process the time taken to generate a key
may vary somewhat.

=head1 BUGS

A quirk of the prime generation algorithm is that it cannot generate small
primes. Therefore the number of bits should not be less that 64. For typical
private keys this will not matter because for security reasons they will
be much larger (typically 1024 bits).

=head1 SEE ALSO

gendsa(1)
