
=pod

=head1 NAME

x509 - Certificate display and signing utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<x509>
[B<-inform DER|PEM|NET>]
[B<-outform DER|PEM|NET>]
[B<-keyform DER|PEM>]
[B<-CAform DER|PEM>]
[B<-CAkeyform DER|PEM>]
[B<-in filename>]
[B<-out filename>]
[B<-serial>]
[B<-hash>]
[B<-subject>]
[B<-issuer>]
[B<-startdate>]
[B<-enddate>]
[B<-purpose>]
[B<-dates>]
[B<-modulus>]
[B<-fingerprint>]
[B<-alias>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-trustout>]
[B<-clrtrust>]
[B<-clrnotrust>]
[B<-addtrust arg>]
[B<-addnotrust arg>]
[B<-setalias arg>]
[B<-days arg>]
[B<-signkey filename>]
[B<-x509toreq>]
[B<-req>]
[B<-CA filename>]
[B<-CAkey filename>]
[B<-CAcreateserial>]
[B<-CAserial filename>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-C>]
[B<-md2|-md5|-sha1|-mdc2>]
[B<-clrext>]
[B<-extfile filename>]
[B<-extensions section>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<x509> command is a multi purpose certificate utility. It can be
used to display certificate information, convert certificates to
various forms, sign certificate requests like a "mini CA" or edit
certificate trust settings.

Since there are a large number of options they will split up into
various sections.


=head1 INPUT AND OUTPUT OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-inform DER|PEM|NET>

This specifies the input format normally the command will expect an X509
certificate but this can change if other options such as B<-req> are
present. The DER format is the DER encoding of the certificate and PEM
is the base64 encoding of the DER encoding with header and footer lines
added. The NET option is an obscure Netscape server format that is now
obsolete.

=item B<-outform DER|PEM|NET>

This specifies the output format, the options have the same meaning as the 
B<-inform> option.

=item B<-in filename>

This specifies the input filename to read a certificate from or standard input
if this option is not specified.

=item B<-out filename>

This specifies the output filename to write to or standard output by
default.

=back

=head1 DISPLAY OPTIONS

Note: the B<-alias> and B<-purpose> options are also display options
but are desribed in the B<TRUST OPTIONS> section.

=over 4

=item B<-text>

prints out the certificate in text form. Full details are output including the
public key, signature algorithms, issuer and subject names, serial number
any extensions present and any trust settings.

=item B<-noout>

this option prevents output of the encoded version of the request.

=item B<-modulus>

this option prints out the value of the modulus of the public key
contained in the certificate.

=item B<-serial>

outputs the certificate serial number.

=item B<-hash>

outputs the "hash" of the certificate issuer name. This is used in OpenSSL to
form an index to allow certificates in a directory to be lookup up by issuer
name.

=item B<-subject>

outputs the subject name.

=item B<-issuer>

outputs the issuer name.

=item B<-startdate>

prints out the start date of the certificate, that is the notBefore date.

=item B<-enddate>

prints out the expiry date of the certificate, that is the notAfter date.

=item B<-dates>

prints out the start and expiry dates of a certificate.

=item B<-fingerprint>

prints out the MD5 digest of the whole certificate.

=item B<-C>

this outputs the certificate in the form of a C source file.

=back

=head1 TRUST SETTINGS

Please note these options are currently experimental and may well change.

A B<trusted certificate> is an ordinary certificate which has several
additional pieces of information attached to it such as the permitted
and prohibited uses of the certificate and an "alias".

Normally when a certificate is being verified at least one certificate
must be "trusted". By default a trusted certificate must be stored
locally and must be a root CA: any certificate chain ending in this CA
is then usable for any purpose.

Adding trust settings modifies this behaviour: if a certificate is being 
verified and one of the certificate chain is marked as trusted for that
specific purpose then the verify succeeds without looking up any more
certificates. Similarly if the use is prohibited then the certificate
is automatically rejected. If a purpose is neither permitted nor prohibited
then the certificate extensions are checked for consistency with the required
purpose and the process continues.

If a root CA is reached then it must be marked as trusted for the required
purpose or the verify fails.

See the description of the B<verify> utility for more information on the
meaning of trust settings.

=over 4

=item B<-trustout>

this causes B<x509> to output a B<trusted> certificate. An ordinary
or trusted certificate can be input but by default an ordinary
certificate is output and any trust settings are discarded. With the
B<-trustout> option a trusted certificate is output. A trusted
certificate is automatically output if any trust settings are modified.

=item B<-setalias arg>

sets the alias of the certificate. This will allow the certificate
to be reffered to using a nickname for example "Steve's Certificate".

=item B<-alias>

outputs the certificate alias, if any.

=item B<-clrtrust>

clears all the permitted or trusted uses of the certificate.

=item B<-clrnotrust>

clears all the prohibited or untrusted uses of the certificate.

=item B<-addtrust arg>

adds a trusted certificate use. Currently acceptable values
are all (any purpose), sslclient (SSL client use), sslserver
(SSL server use) email (S/MIME email) and objsign (Object signing).

=item B<-addnotrust arg>

adds a prohibited use. It accepts the same values as the B<-addtrust>
option.

=item B<-purpose>

this option performs tests on the certificate extensions and outputs
the results. It checks to see if the certificate can be used as an
end user or CA certificate for various purposes. Since many commercial
certificates have invalid extensions it is possible that warnings will
be output for some certificates. Known problems have work arounds added.

=back

=head1 SIGNING OPTIONS

The B<x509> utility can be used to sign certificates and requests: it
can thus behave like a "mini CA".

=over 4

=item B<-signkey filename>

this option causes the input file to be self signed using the supplied
private key. 

If the input file is a certificate it sets the issuer name to the
subject name (i.e.  makes it self signed) changes the public key to the
supplied value and changes the start and end dates. The start date is
set to the current time and the end date is set to a value determined
by the B<-days> option. Any certificate extensions are retained unless
the B<-clrext> option is supplied.

If the input is a certificate request then a self signed certificate
is created using the supplied private key using the subject name in
the request.

=item B<-clrext>

delete any extensions from a certificate. This option is used when a
certificate is being created from another certificate (for example with
the B<-signkey> or the B<-CA> options). Normally all extensions are
retained.

=item B<-keyform PEM|DER>

specifies the format (DER or PEM) of the private key file used in the
B<-signkey> option.

=item B<-days arg>

specifies the number of days to make a certificate valid for. The default
is 30 days.

=item B<-x509toreq>

converts a certificate into a certificate request. The B<-signkey> option
is used to pass the required private key.

=item B<-req>

by default a certificate is expected on input. With this option a
certificate request is expected instead.

=item B<-CA filename>

specifies the CA certificate to be used for signing. When this option is
present B<x509> behaves like a "mini CA". The input file is signed by this
CA using this option: that is its issuer name is set to the subject name
of the CA and it is digitally signed using the CAs private key.

This option is normally combined with the B<-req> option. Without the
B<-req> option the input is a certificate which must be self signed.

=item B<-CAkey filename>

sets the CA private key to sign a certificate with. If this option is
not specified then it is assumed that the CA private key is present in
the CA certificate file.

=item B<-CAserial filename>

sets the CA serial number file to use.

When the B<-CA> option is used to sign a certificate it uses a serial
number specified in a file. This file consist of one line containing
an even number of hex digits with the serial number to use. After each
use the serial number is incremented and written out to the file again.

The default filename consists of the CA certificate file base name with
".srl" appended. For example if the CA certificate file is called 
"mycacert.pem" it expects to find a serial number file called "mycacert.srl".

=item B<-CAcreateserial filename>

with this option the CA serial number file is created if it does not exist:
it will contain the serial number "01". Normally if the B<-CA> option is
specified and the serial number file does not exist it is an error.

=item B<-md2|-md5|-sha1|-mdc2>

the digest to sign with. It affects all commands that sign a certificate
or request.

=item B<-extfile filename>

file containing certificate extensions to use. If not specified then
no extensions are added to the certificate.

=item B<-extensions section>

the section to add certificate extensions from. If this option is not
specified then the extensions should either be contained in the unnamed
(default) section or the default section should contain a variable called
"extensions" which contains the section to use.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Note: in these examples the '\' means the example should be all on one
line.

Display the contents of a certificate:

	openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -text

Displa the certificate serial number:

	openssl x509 -in cert.pem -noout -serial


Convert a certificate from PEM to DER format:

	openssl x509 -in cert.pem -inform PEM -out cert.der -outform DER

Convert a certificate to a certificate request:

	openssl x509 -x509toreq -in cert.pem -out req.pem -signkey key.pem

Convert a certificate request into a self signed certificate using
extensions for a CA:

	openssl x509 -req -in careq.pem -config openssl.cnf -extensions v3_ca \
		-signkey key.pem -out cacert.pem

Sign a certificate request using the CA certifcate above and add user
certificate extensions:

	openssl x509 -req -in req.pem -config openssl.cnf -extensions v3_usr \
		-CA cacert.pem -CAkey key.pem -CAcreateserial


Set a certificate to be trusted for SSL client use and change set its alias to
"Steve's Class 1 CA"

	openssl x509 -in cert.pem -addtrust sslclient \
		-alias "Steve's Class 1 CA" -out trust.pem

=head1 BUGS

The way DNs are printed is in a "historical SSLeay" format which doesn't
follow any published standard. It should follow some standard like RFC2253
or RFC1779 with options to make the stuff more readable.

Extensions in certificates are not transferred to certificate requests and
vice versa.

It is possible to produce invalid certificates or requests by specifying the
wrong private key or using inconsistent options in some cases: these should
be checked.

There should be options to explicitly set such things are start and end
dates rather than an offset from the current time.

The code to implement the verify behaviour described in the B<TRUST SETTINGS>
is currently being developed. It thus describes the intended behavior rather
than the current behaviour. It is hoped that it will represent reality in
OpenSSL 0.9.5 and later.


=head1 SEE ALSO

req(1), ca(1), genrsa(1), gendsa(1)

=cut
