=pod

=head1 NAME

crl - CRL utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<crl>
[B<-inform> B<PEM>|B<DER>]
[B<-outform> B<PEM>|B<DER>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-in> I<filename>]
[B<-out> I<filename>]
[B<-nameopt> I<option>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-hash>]
[B<-issuer>]
[B<-lastupdate>]
[B<-nextupdate>]
[B<-CAfile> I<file>]
[B<-CApath> I<dir>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<crl> command processes CRL files in DER or PEM format.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-inform> B<DER>|B<PEM>

This specifies the input format.
B<DER> format is DER encoded CRL structure.
B<PEM> (the default) is a base64 encoded version of the DER form with header and footer lines.

=item B<-outform> B<DER>|B<PEM>

This specifies the output format, the options have the same meaning as the B<-inform> option.

=item B<-in> I<filename>

This specifies the input filename to read from or standard input if this option is not specified.

=item B<-out> I<filename>

Specifies the output filename to write to or standard output if this option is not specified.

=item B<-text>

Print out the CRL in text form.

=item B<-nameopt> I<option>

Option which determines how the subject or issuer names are displayed.
See the description of B<-nameopt> in L<x509(1)>.

=item B<-noout>

Don't output the encoded version of the CRL.

=item B<-hash>

Output a hash of the issuer name.
This can be use to lookup CRLs in a directory by issuer name.

=item B<-hash_old>

Outputs the "hash" of the CRL issuer name using the older algorithm as used by OpenSSL versions before 1.0.0.

=item B<-issuer>

Output the issuer name.

=item B<-lastupdate>

Output the B<lastUpdate> field.

=item B<-nextupdate>

Output the B<nextUpdate> field.

=item B<-CAfile> I<file>

Verify the signature on a CRL by looking up the issuing certificate in I<file>.

=item B<-CApath> I<dir>

Verify the signature on a CRL by looking up the issuing certificate in I<dir>.
This directory must be a standard certificate directory: that is, a hash of each subject name (using B<x509 -hash>) should be linked to each certificate.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The PEM CRL format uses the header and footer lines:

 -----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
 -----END X509 CRL-----

=head1 EXAMPLES

Convert a CRL file from PEM to DER:

 openssl crl -in crl.pem -outform DER -out crl.der

Output the text form of a DER encoded certificate:

 openssl crl -in crl.der -text -noout

=head1 BUGS

Ideally it should be possible to create a CRL using appropriate options and files too.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crl2pkcs7(1)>, L<ca(1)>, L<x509(1)>

=cut
