=pod

=head1 NAME

pbe - Handles key derivation using password-based encryption functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<pbe>
[B<-help>]
[B<-kdf kdf_function>]
[B<-salt string>]
[B<-hexsalt>]
[B<-itercnt iterations>]
[B<-N cost_param>]
[B<-r block_param>]
[B<-p parallel_param>]
[B<-dklen bytes>]
[B<-* hash_fnc>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pbe> command derives a secret key from a given password using a
password-based encryption (PBE) key stretching function. These functions work
similar to hash functions but offer customizable load parameterizations in
order to deliberately slow down the derivation process. This is useful to
increase the difficulty of dictionary attacks. Currently, two PBE functions are
supported: PBKDF2 and scrypt.

=head1 COMMAND OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

=item B<-kdf kdf_function>

Specifies the key derivation function that B<pbe> uses. Permissible values are
pbkdf2 or scrypt.

=item B<-salt string>

Gives the salt value used for key derivation. The passed string is by default
interpreted as the literal salt.

=item B<-hexsalt>

Tells B<pbe> to interpret the passed salt string as a hex string (i.e., it is
Base16 decoded first before it is used).

=item B<-itercnt iterations>

For PBKDF2, internally an HMAC function is iterated. This parameter defines how
many iterations should be taken. A greater value increases the time for
derivation in a linear manner.

=item B<-N cost_param>

For scrypt, N gives the cost and memory load factor. It needs to be a power of
two.

=item B<-r block_param>

For scrypt, r is the block size parameter.

=item B<-p parallel_param>

For scrypt, p gives the parallelization parameter.

=item B<-dklen bytes>

Gives the length in bytes which the derived password shall have.

=item B<-* hash_fnc>

Internally the PBE derivation functions rely on cryptographic hash functions.
In the case that this hash function is parametrizable, it can be specified on
the command line. Note that scrypt will, by definition, always use
PBKDF2-HMAC-SHA256 internally and thus B<pbe> will reject any other given hash
when scrypt is requested. For PBKDF2, internally HMAC is used for the
computation. If the message digest function is not given on the command line,
B<pbe> will default to PBKDF2-HMAC-SHA1.

=back

=head1 CONSIDERATIONS

The derivation time of PBKDF2 scales linearly with the given iteration count.
It is not a memory-hard derivation function and thus the memory requirements
will not scale up with increased derivation time.

In contrast, scrypt will consume approximately 128 * r * N bytes of memory for
the internal computation. The derivation time scales linearly with all of N, r,
and p. Colin Percival, the author of scrypt, suggested in its initial
publication the values N = 16384, r = 8, p = 1 for interactive logins and N =
1048576, r = 8, p = 1 for generating keys to encrypt or decrypt sensitive
files.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dgst(1)>

=head1 HISTORY

The B<pbe> command was first added to OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2006-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
