
=pod

=head1 NAME

pkey - public or private key processing tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<pkey>
[B<-inform> B<PEM>|B<DER>]
[B<-outform> B<PEM>|B<DER>]
[B<-in> I<filename>]
[B<-passin> I<arg>]
[B<-out> I<filename>]
[B<-passout> I<arg>]
[B<->I<cipher>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-text_pub>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-pubin>]
[B<-pubout>]
[B<-engine> I<id>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pkey> command processes public or private keys.
They can be converted between various forms and their components printed out.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-inform> B<DER>|B<PEM>

This specifies the input format to be DER or PEM.

=item B<-outform> B<DER>|B<PEM>

This specifies the output format.
The options have the same meaning as the B<-inform> option.

=item B<-in> I<filename>

This specifies the input filename to read a key from.
Standard input is the default.
If the key is encrypted a pass phrase will be prompted for.

=item B<-passin> I<arg>

The input file password source.
For more information about the format of I<arg>, see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-out> I<filename>

This specifies the output filename to write a key to or.
Standard output is the default.
If any encryption options are set, then a pass phrase will be prompted for.
The output filename should B<not> be the same as the input filename.

=item B<-passout> I<arg>

The output file password source.
For more information about the format of I<arg>, see the B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<->I<cipher>

These options encrypt the private key with the supplied cipher.
Any algorithm name accepted by EVP_get_cipherbyname(), such as B<des3>, is acceptable for I<cipher>.

=item B<-text>

Prints out the various public or private key components in plain text in addition to the encoded version. 

=item B<-text_pub>

Print out only public key components, even if a private key is being processed.

=item B<-noout>

Do not output the encoded version of the key.

=item B<-pubin>

By default, a private key is read from the input file.
With this option a public key is read instead.

=item B<-pubout>

By default a private key is output.
With this option a public key will be output instead.
This option is automatically set if the input is a public key.

=item B<-engine> I<id>

Specifying an engine (by its unique I<id> string) will cause B<pkey> to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine, thus initialising it if needed.
The engine will then be set as the default for all available algorithms.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To remove the pass phrase on an RSA private key:

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -out keyout.pem

To encrypt a private key using triple DES:

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -des3 -out keyout.pem

To convert a private key from PEM to DER format: 

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -outform DER -out keyout.der

To print out the components of a private key to standard output:

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -text -noout

To print out the public components of a private key to standard output:

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -text_pub -noout

To just output the public part of a private key:

 openssl pkey -in key.pem -pubout -out pubkey.pem

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<genpkey(1)>, L<rsa(1)>, L<pkcs8(1)>, L<dsa(1)>, L<genrsa(1)>, L<gendsa(1)> 

=cut
