=pod

=head1 NAME

evp_pkey_make_provided - internal EVP_PKEY support functions for providers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 /* Only for EVP source */
 #include "evp_local.h"

 void *evp_pkey_make_provided(EVP_PKEY *pk, OPENSSL_CTX *libctx,
                              EVP_KEYMGMT **keymgmt, const char *propquery);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

evp_pkey_make_provided() ensures that the B<EVP_PKEY> I<pk> is provided within
the library context I<libctx> (NULL means the default context).  I<keymgmt>
may point at a reference to a B<EVP_KEYMGMT>, and works as an input/output
parameter.
As input to this function, it can be used to specify a B<EVP_KEYMGMT> to be
used for exporting.  If not (I<*keymgmt> is NULL), then this function will
fetch an B<EVP_KEYMGMT> implicitly, using I<propquery> as property query string.
As output from this function, I<*keymgmt> will be assigned the B<EVP_KEYMGMT>
that was used, if the export was successful, otherwise it will be assigned NULL.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

evp_pkey_make_provided() returns the provider key data that was exported if
I<pk> was successfully provided.  Otherwise, NULL is returned.

=head1 NOTES

Some functions calling evp_pkey_make_provided() may have received a const
key, and may therefore have to cast the key to non-const form to call this
function.  Since B<EVP_PKEY> is always dynamically allocated, this is OK.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OPENSSL_CTX(3)>, L<EVP_KEYMGMT(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were all added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
