=pod

=head1 NAME

evp_pkey_export_to_provider, evp_pkey_copy_downgraded, evp_pkey_downgrade
- internal EVP_PKEY support functions for providers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 /* Only for EVP source */
 #include "evp_local.h"

 void *evp_pkey_export_to_provider(EVP_PKEY *pk, OSSL_LIB_CTX *libctx,
                                   EVP_KEYMGMT **keymgmt,
                                   const char *propquery);
 int evp_pkey_copy_downgraded(EVP_PKEY **dest, const EVP_PKEY *src);
 int evp_pkey_downgrade(EVP_PKEY *pk);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual uses the term "origin", which is explained in internal
L<EVP_PKEY(7)>.

evp_pkey_export_to_provider() exports the "origin" key contained in I<pk>
to its operation cache to make it suitable for an B<EVP_KEYMGMT> given either
with I<*keymgmt> or with an implicit fetch using I<libctx> (NULL means the
default context), the name of the legacy type of I<pk>, and the I<propquery>
(NULL means the default property query settings).

If I<keymgmt> isn't NULL but I<*keymgmt> is, and the "origin" was successfully
exported, then I<*keymgmt> is assigned the implicitly fetched B<EVP_KEYMGMT>.

evp_pkey_copy_downgraded() makes a copy of I<src> in legacy form into I<*dest>,
if there's a corresponding legacy implementation.  This should be used if the
use of a downgraded key is temporary.
For example, L<PEM_write_bio_PrivateKey_traditional(3)> uses this to try its
best to get "traditional" PEM output even if the input B<EVP_PKEY> has a
provider-native internal key.

evp_pkey_downgrade() converts an B<EVP_PKEY> with a provider side "origin" key
to one with a legacy "origin", if there's a corresponding legacy implementation.
This clears the operation cache, except for the provider side "origin" key.
This function is used in spots where provider side keys aren't yet supported,
in an attempt to keep operating with available implementations.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

evp_pkey_export_to_provider() returns the provider key data if there was any
allocated.  It also either sets I<*keymgmt> to the B<EVP_KEYMGMT> associated
with the returned key data, or NULL on error.

evp_pkey_downgrade() returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

=head1 NOTES

Some functions calling evp_pkey_export_to_provider() or evp_pkey_downgrade()
may have received a const key, and may therefore have to cast the key to
non-const form to call this function.  Since B<EVP_PKEY> is always dynamically
allocated, this is OK.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_LIB_CTX(3)>, L<EVP_KEYMGMT(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were all added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
