=pod

=head1 NAME

evp_keymgmt_importdomain, evp_keymgmt_gendomain,
evp_keymgmt_freedomain,
evp_keymgmt_exportdomain,
evp_keymgmt_importdomain_types, evp_keymgmt_exportdomain_types,
evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv, evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub, evp_keymgmt_genkey,
evp_keymgmt_loadkey,
evp_keymgmt_freekey,
evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv, evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub,
evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv_types, evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub_types,
evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv_types, evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub_types
- internal KEYMGMT support functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "internal/evp_int.h"

 void *evp_keymgmt_importdomain(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 void *evp_keymgmt_gendomain(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                             const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 void evp_keymgmt_freedomain(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *provdomain);
 int evp_keymgmt_exportdomain(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                              void *provdomain, OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 const OSSL_PARAM *evp_keymgmt_importdomain_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);
 const OSSL_PARAM *evp_keymgmt_exportdomain_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);

 void *evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                  const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 void *evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 void *evp_keymgmt_genkey(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *domain,
                          const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 void *evp_keymgmt_loadkey(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                           void *id, size_t idlen);
 void evp_keymgmt_freekey(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *provkey);
 int evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                void *provkey, OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 int evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                               void *provkey, OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 const OSSL_PARAM *
 evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);
 const OSSL_PARAM *
 evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);
 const OSSL_PARAM *
 evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);
 const OSSL_PARAM *
 evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

All these functions are helpers to call the provider's corresponding
function.

evp_keymgmt_importdomain() calls the method's importdomain() function.

evp_keymgmt_gendomain() calls the method's gendomain() function.

evp_keymgmt_freedomain() calls the method's freedomain() function.

evp_keymgmt_exportdomain() calls the method's exportdomain()
function.

evp_keymgmt_importdomain_types() calls the method's
importdomain_types() function.

evp_keymgmt_exportdomain_types() calls the method's
exportdomain_types() function.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv() calls the method's importkey_priv()
function.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub() calls the method's importkey_pub()
function.

evp_keymgmt_genkey() calls the method's genkey() function.

evp_keymgmt_loadkey() calls the method's loadkey() function.

evp_keymgmt_freekey() calls the method's freekey() function.

evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv() calls the method's exportkey_priv()
function.

evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub() calls the method's exportkey_pub()
function.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv_types() calls the method's
importkey_priv_types() function.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub_types() calls the method's
importkey_pub_types() function.

evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv_types() calls the method's
exportkey_priv_types() function.

evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub_types() calls the method's
exportkey_pub_types() function.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

evp_keymgmt_importdomain(), evp_keymgmt_gendomain() return a pointer
to a provider owned set of domain parameters, or NULL on error.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv(), evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub(),
evp_keymgmt_genkey(), evp_keymgmt_loadkey() return a pointer to a
provider owned key, or NULL on error.

evp_keymgmt_exportdomain(), evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv(),
evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub() return 1 on success, or 0 on error.

evp_keymgmt_importdomain_types(), evp_keymgmt_exportdomain_types()
return parameter descriptor for importing and exporting domain
parameters, or NULL if there are no such descriptors.

evp_keymgmt_importkey_priv_types(), evp_keymgmt_importkey_pub_types(),
evp_keymgmt_exportkey_priv_types(), evp_keymgmt_exportkey_pub_types()
return parameter descriptor for importing and exporting keys, or NULL
if there are no such descriptors.

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were all added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
