=pod

=head1 NAME

ossl_evp_keymgmt_newdata, ossl_evp_keymgmt_freedata,
ossl_evp_keymgmt_get_params,
ossl_evp_keymgmt_has, ossl_evp_keymgmt_validate,
ossl_evp_keymgmt_import, ossl_evp_keymgmt_import_types,
ossl_evp_keymgmt_export, ossl_evp_keymgmt_export_types
- internal KEYMGMT interface functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "crypto/evp.h"

 void *ossl_evp_keymgmt_newdata(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt);
 void ossl_evp_keymgmt_freedata(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *keyddata);
 int ossl_evp_keymgmt_get_params(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                 void *keydata, OSSL_PARAM params[]);

 int ossl_evp_keymgmt_has(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *keyddata,
                          int selection);
 int ossl_evp_keymgmt_validate(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *keydata,
                               int selection);

 int ossl_evp_keymgmt_import(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *keydata,
                             int selection, const OSSL_PARAM params[]);
 const OSSL_PARAM *ossl_evp_keymgmt_import_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                                 int selection);
 int ossl_evp_keymgmt_export(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt, void *keydata,
                             int selection,
                             OSSL_CALLBACK *param_cb, void *cbarg);
 const OSSL_PARAM *ossl_evp_keymgmt_export_types(const EVP_KEYMGMT *keymgmt,
                                                 int selection);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

All these functions are helpers to call the provider's corresponding
function.  They all have in common that they take a B<EVP_KEYMGMT> as
first argument, which they also retrieve a provider context from when
needed.  The rest of the arguments are simply passed on to the
function they wrap around.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_newdata() calls the method's new() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_freedata() calls the method's free() function.

(the name ossl_evp_keymgmt_freedata() was chosen to avoid a clash with
EVP_KEYMGMT_free() on case insensitive systems, the name
ossl_evp_keymgmt_newdata() was chosen for consistency)

ossl_evp_keymgmt_get_params() calls the method's get_params() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_has() calls the method's has() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_validate() calls the method's validate() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_import() calls the method's import() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_import_types() calls the method's import_types() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_export() calls the method's export() function.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_export_types() calls the method's export_types() function.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ossl_evp_keymgmt_newdata() returns a pointer to a provider side key object,
or NULL on error.

ossl_evp_keymgmt_import_types(), and ossl_evp_keymgmt_export_types() return a
parameter descriptor for importing and exporting key data, or NULL if there
are no such descriptors.

All other functions return 1 on success and 0 on error.

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were all added in OpenSSL 3.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
