=pod

=head1 NAME

ossl_pq_node_init, ossl_pq_node_in_queue,
ossl_pq_new, ossl_pq_free, ossl_pq_pop_free,
ossl_pq_reserve, ossl_pq_num,
ossl_pq_push, ossl_pq_peek, ossl_pq_pop, ossl_pq_remove
- intrusive binary-heap priority queue

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "internal/pq.h"

 typedef struct ossl_pq_st        OSSL_PQ;
 typedef struct ossl_pq_node_st   OSSL_PQ_NODE;

 #define OSSL_PQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE     ((size_t)-1)

 void ossl_pq_node_init(OSSL_PQ_NODE *n);
 int  ossl_pq_node_in_queue(const OSSL_PQ_NODE *n);

 OSSL_PQ *ossl_pq_new(int (*cmp)(const OSSL_PQ_NODE *,
                                 const OSSL_PQ_NODE *));
 void     ossl_pq_free(OSSL_PQ *pq);
 void     ossl_pq_pop_free(OSSL_PQ *pq, void (*freefunc)(OSSL_PQ_NODE *));
 int      ossl_pq_reserve(OSSL_PQ *pq, size_t n);
 size_t   ossl_pq_num(const OSSL_PQ *pq);

 int           ossl_pq_push(OSSL_PQ *pq, OSSL_PQ_NODE *n);
 OSSL_PQ_NODE *ossl_pq_peek(const OSSL_PQ *pq);
 OSSL_PQ_NODE *ossl_pq_pop(OSSL_PQ *pq);
 OSSL_PQ_NODE *ossl_pq_remove(OSSL_PQ *pq, OSSL_PQ_NODE *n);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OSSL_PQ> is an intrusive binary-heap priority queue.  Each user
element embeds a B<OSSL_PQ_NODE> field; the queue stores pointers to
those embedded nodes and tracks each element's current heap position
inside the node itself.  Compared with the type-parameterised
B<DEFINE_PRIORITY_QUEUE_OF>(3) API it removes the per-type wrapper
macros, the C<void *> casts, the parallel handle table, and the
separate handle storage that callers previously kept alongside their
data.  The trade-off is that callers must use
L<CONTAINER_OF(3)|CONTAINER_OF_CONST(3)> to recover their containing
struct from a B<OSSL_PQ_NODE> pointer returned by the API.

The heap is a min-heap ordered by the user-supplied comparator
I<cmp>, which is called to order two nodes and should return a
negative value if the first compares less than the second, B<0> if
they are equal, and a positive value otherwise.  Comparators
typically use B<CONTAINER_OF> to reach the key field of the
containing struct:

 typedef struct foo_st {
     uint64_t      key;
     OSSL_PQ_NODE  pqn;
 } FOO;

 static int foo_cmp(const OSSL_PQ_NODE *a, const OSSL_PQ_NODE *b)
 {
     const FOO *fa = CONTAINER_OF(a, FOO, pqn);
     const FOO *fb = CONTAINER_OF(b, FOO, pqn);
     return fa->key < fb->key ? -1 : fa->key > fb->key;
 }

An element may belong to at most one queue at a time.  Re-pushing a
node that is already enqueued is a programming error and is asserted
in debug builds.  Callers must initialise the embedded
B<OSSL_PQ_NODE> with B<ossl_pq_node_init>() (or otherwise arrange
for I<posn> to be B<OSSL_PQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE>) before the first push.

B<ossl_pq_node_init>() prepares I<n> for insertion by setting its
internal position field to B<OSSL_PQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE>.  After
B<ossl_pq_pop>() or B<ossl_pq_remove>() the same node may be pushed
again without re-initialisation; the API maintains the invariant.

B<ossl_pq_node_in_queue>() returns non-zero if I<n> currently
belongs to a queue, zero otherwise.  It is a constant-time check
against the in-node sentinel.

B<ossl_pq_new>() allocates an empty priority queue using comparator
I<cmp>.  It is an error for I<cmp> to be NULL.

B<ossl_pq_free>() frees the I<pq> structure.  It does I<not> free
any of the elements still in I<pq>.  After this call I<pq> is no
longer valid.  Passing NULL is a no-op.

B<ossl_pq_pop_free>() walks every element of I<pq> in heap-array
order, calls I<freefunc>() on each, and then frees the queue
itself.  Heap ordering is not preserved between callbacks (the queue
is being torn down).  The node's I<posn> field is left untouched
because I<freefunc>() is expected to release the containing struct.
Passing NULL for I<pq> is a no-op.

B<ossl_pq_reserve>() grows the underlying heap array so that the
next I<n> calls to B<ossl_pq_push>() will not need to allocate.
If I<n> is zero, no additional space is reserved.  On error I<pq>
is unchanged.

B<ossl_pq_num>() returns the number of elements currently in I<pq>,
or B<0> if I<pq> is NULL.

B<ossl_pq_push>() inserts I<n> into the priority queue I<pq>.  The
caller must have initialised I<n> with B<ossl_pq_node_init>() (or
recycled it from a previous B<ossl_pq_pop>() / B<ossl_pq_remove>()).
Pushing a node that is already in any queue is a programming error.

B<ossl_pq_peek>() returns a pointer to the smallest node in I<pq>
without removing it, or NULL if I<pq> is empty.

B<ossl_pq_pop>() returns the smallest node in I<pq> and removes it.
After this call the returned node is detached and may be pushed
into another queue.  Returns NULL if I<pq> is empty.

B<ossl_pq_remove>() removes the specified I<n> from I<pq> and
returns it.  The function operates on the node directly -- no
separate handle is required.  Returns NULL if I<pq> is NULL, I<n>
is NULL, or I<n> is not currently in I<pq>.  The detached-node
check is safe provided the embedded B<OSSL_PQ_NODE> has been
touched by a prior push on this queue or is zero-initialised;
otherwise the behaviour is undefined.

=head1 NOTES

The queue performs O(1) peek, O(log n) push, pop and remove on a
contiguous array of B<OSSL_PQ_NODE> pointers.  No callable
operation traverses a chain of pointers, so the in-tree footprint
is one allocation for the queue object plus one allocation for the
node-pointer array; nodes themselves live in the caller's storage.

This API replaces the older B<DEFINE_PRIORITY_QUEUE_OF>(3) family
for new code.  Both APIs can coexist in the same binary -- they
share no symbols.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

B<ossl_pq_node_init>() and B<ossl_pq_free>() and
B<ossl_pq_pop_free>() do not return values.

B<ossl_pq_node_in_queue>() returns B<1> if the node is currently
enqueued, B<0> otherwise.

B<ossl_pq_new>() returns an empty queue on success or NULL on
allocation failure or if I<cmp> is NULL.

B<ossl_pq_reserve>() returns B<1> on success, B<0> on allocation
failure.

B<ossl_pq_num>() returns the queue length, or B<0> if I<pq> is
NULL.

B<ossl_pq_push>() returns B<1> on success, B<0> on allocation
failure or on a NULL I<pq>/I<n>.

B<ossl_pq_peek>() and B<ossl_pq_pop>() return the smallest node, or
NULL if the queue is empty (or I<pq> is NULL).

B<ossl_pq_remove>() returns the removed node, or NULL if the node
is not in I<pq>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DEFINE_PRIORITY_QUEUE_OF(3)>.

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
