=pod

=head1 NAME

ossl_x509v3_cache_extensions
- cache info on various X.509v3 extensions and further derived certificate data

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "crypto/x509.h"

 int ossl_x509v3_cache_extensions(const X509 *x);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This function processes any X509v3 extensions present in an X509 object I<x>
and caches the result of that processing as well as further derived info,
for instance whether the certificate is self-issued or has version X.509v1.
It computes the SHA1 digest of the certificate using the default library context
and property query string and stores the result in x->sha1_hash,
or on failure sets B<EXFLAG_NO_FINGERPRINT> in x->flags.
It sets B<X509_SIG_INFO_VALID> in x->flags if x->siginf was filled successfully,
which may not be possible if a referenced algorithm is unknown or not available.
This function is called when a certificate is finalized, that is after it is
parsed with a B<d2i_X509> function or signed, to populate the cache. It is
idempotent: once the cache has been populated it returns the cached validity
without reprocessing. See L<x509(7)> for the caching contract.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

This function returns 0 if the extensions or other portions of the certificate
are invalid or an error occurred.
Otherwise it returns 1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2020-2021 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
