=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_PRIOQ, OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE, OSSL_PRIOQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE,
ossl_prioq_node_init, ossl_prioq_node_in_queue,
ossl_prioq_new, ossl_prioq_free, ossl_prioq_pop_free,
ossl_prioq_reserve, ossl_prioq_num,
ossl_prioq_push, ossl_prioq_peek, ossl_prioq_pop, ossl_prioq_remove
- intrusive binary-heap priority queue

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "internal/prioq.h"

 typedef struct ossl_prioq_st        OSSL_PRIOQ;
 typedef struct ossl_prioq_node_st   OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE;

 #define OSSL_PRIOQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE     ((size_t)-1)

 void ossl_prioq_node_init(OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *n);
 int  ossl_prioq_node_in_queue(const OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *n);

 OSSL_PRIOQ *ossl_prioq_new(int (*cmp)(const OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *,
                                 const OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *));
 void     ossl_prioq_free(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq);
 void     ossl_prioq_pop_free(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq, void (*freefunc)(OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *));
 int      ossl_prioq_reserve(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq, size_t n);
 size_t   ossl_prioq_num(const OSSL_PRIOQ *pq);

 int           ossl_prioq_push(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq, OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *n);
 OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *ossl_prioq_peek(const OSSL_PRIOQ *pq);
 OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *ossl_prioq_pop(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq);
 OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *ossl_prioq_remove(OSSL_PRIOQ *pq, OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *n);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OSSL_PRIOQ> is an intrusive binary-heap priority queue. Each user
element embeds a B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE> field; the queue stores pointers to
those embedded nodes and tracks each element's current heap position
inside the node itself.

The heap is a min-heap ordered by the user-supplied comparator
I<cmp>, which is called to order two nodes and should return a
negative value if the first compares less than the second, B<0> if
they are equal, and a positive value otherwise. Comparators
typically use B<CONTAINER_OF> to reach the key field of the
containing struct:

 typedef struct foo_st {
     uint64_t      key;
     OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE  pqn;
 } FOO;

 static int foo_cmp(const OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *a, const OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE *b)
 {
     const FOO *fa = CONTAINER_OF(a, FOO, pqn);
     const FOO *fb = CONTAINER_OF(b, FOO, pqn);
     return fa->key < fb->key ? -1 : fa->key > fb->key;
 }

An element may belong to at most one queue at a time. Re-pushing a
node that is already enqueued is a programming error and is asserted
in debug builds. Callers must call B<ossl_prioq_node_init>() on the
embedded B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE> (or otherwise arrange for I<posn> to be
B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE>) before the first push.

B<ossl_prioq_node_init>() prepares I<n> for insertion by setting its
internal position field to B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NOT_IN_QUEUE>. After
B<ossl_prioq_pop>() or B<ossl_prioq_remove>() the same node may be pushed
again without re-initialisation; the API maintains the invariant.

B<ossl_prioq_node_in_queue>() returns nonzero if I<n> currently
belongs to a queue, zero otherwise. It is a constant-time check
against the in-node sentinel.

B<ossl_prioq_new>() allocates an empty priority queue using comparator
I<cmp>.  It is an error for I<cmp> to be NULL.

B<ossl_prioq_free>() frees the I<pq> structure. It does I<not> free
any of the elements still in I<pq>. After this call I<pq> is no
longer valid. Passing NULL is a no-op.

B<ossl_prioq_pop_free>() walks every element of I<pq> in heap-array
order, calls I<freefunc> on each, and then frees the queue
itself. Heap ordering is not preserved between callbacks (the queue
is being torn down). The node's I<posn> field is left untouched
because I<freefunc> is expected to release the containing struct.
Passing NULL for I<pq> is a no-op.

If I<freefunc> is NULL the per-element walk is skipped and only the
queue object is released; any elements still in I<pq> are leaked.
This is intentional fail-safe behaviour (no NULL dereference) but is
almost never what the caller wants -- if there is nothing to free
per element, call B<ossl_prioq_free>() directly instead.

B<ossl_prioq_reserve>() grows the underlying heap array so that the
next B<ossl_prioq_push>() calls (up to I<n> of them) will not need to
allocate.
If I<n> is zero, no additional space is reserved. On error I<pq>
is unchanged.

B<ossl_prioq_num>() returns the number of elements currently in I<pq>,
or B<0> if I<pq> is NULL.

B<ossl_prioq_push>() inserts I<n> into the priority queue I<pq>. The
caller must have called B<ossl_prioq_node_init>() on I<n> (or
recycled it from a previous B<ossl_prioq_pop>() / B<ossl_prioq_remove>()).
Pushing a node that is already in any queue is a programming error.

B<ossl_prioq_peek>() returns a pointer to the smallest node in I<pq>
without removing it, or NULL if I<pq> is empty.

B<ossl_prioq_pop>() returns the smallest node in I<pq> and removes it.
After this call the returned node is detached and may be pushed
into another queue.  Returns NULL if I<pq> is empty.

B<ossl_prioq_remove>() removes the specified I<n> from I<pq> and
returns it. The function operates on the node directly -- no
separate handle is required. Returns NULL if I<pq> is NULL, I<n>
is NULL, or I<n> is not currently in I<pq>. The detached-node
check is safe provided the embedded B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE> has been
touched by a prior push on this queue or is zero-initialised;
otherwise the behaviour is undefined.

=head1 NOTES

The queue performs O(1) peek, O(log n) push, pop and remove on a
contiguous array of B<OSSL_PRIOQ_NODE> pointers.  No callable
operation traverses a chain of pointers, so the in-tree footprint
is one allocation for the queue object plus one allocation for the
node-pointer array; nodes themselves live in the caller's storage.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

B<ossl_prioq_node_init>() and B<ossl_prioq_free>() and
B<ossl_prioq_pop_free>() do not return values.

B<ossl_prioq_node_in_queue>() returns B<1> if the node is currently
enqueued, B<0> otherwise.

B<ossl_prioq_new>() returns an empty queue on success or NULL on
allocation failure or if I<cmp> is NULL.

B<ossl_prioq_reserve>() returns B<1> on success, B<0> on allocation
failure.

B<ossl_prioq_num>() returns the queue length, or B<0> if I<pq> is
NULL.

B<ossl_prioq_push>() returns B<1> on success, B<0> on allocation
failure or on a NULL I<pq>/I<n>.

B<ossl_prioq_peek>() and B<ossl_prioq_pop>() return the smallest node, or
NULL if the queue is empty (or I<pq> is NULL).

B<ossl_prioq_remove>() returns the removed node, or NULL if the node
is not in I<pq>.

=head1 HISTORY

The functions described here were added in OpenSSL 4.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
