=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_METHOD_CONSTRUCT_METHOD, ossl_method_construct
- generic method constructor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include "internal/core.h"

 struct ossl_method_construct_method_st {
     /* Create store */
     void *(*alloc_tmp_store)(void);
     /* Remove a store */
     void (*dealloc_tmp_store)(void *store);
     /* Get an already existing method from a store */
     void *(*get)(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx, void *store, const char *propquery,
                  void *data);
     /* Store a method in a store */
     int (*put)(OPENSSL_CTX *libctx, void *store, const char *propdef,
                void *method, void *data);
     /* Construct a new method */
     void *(*construct)(const OSSL_DISPATCH *fns, OSSL_PROVIDER *prov,
                        void *data);
     /* Destruct a method */
     void (*destruct)(void *method);
 };
 typedef struct ossl_method_construct_method OSSL_METHOD_CONSTRUCT_METHOD;

 void *ossl_method_construct(OPENSSL_CTX *ctx, int operation_id,
                             const char *name, const char *properties,
                             int force_cache,
                             OSSL_METHOD_CONSTRUCT_METHOD *mcm, void *mcm_data);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

All libcrypto sub-systems that want to create their own methods based
on provider dispatch tables need to do so in exactly the same way.
ossl_method_construct() does this while leaving it to the sub-systems
to define more precisely how the methods are created, stored, etc.

=head2 Functions

ossl_method_construct() creates a method by asking all available
providers for a dispatch table given an C<operation_id>, an algorithm
C<name> and a set of C<properties>, and then calling appropriate
functions given by the sub-system specific method creator through
C<mcm> and the data in C<mcm_data> (which is passed by
ossl_method_construct()).

This function assumes that the sub-system method creator implements
reference counting and acts accordingly (i.e. it will call the
sub-system destruct() method to decrement the reference count when
appropriate).

=head2 Structures

A central part of constructing a sub-system specific method is to give
ossl_method_construct a set of functions, all in the
C<OSSL_METHOD_CONSTRUCT_METHOD> structure, which holds the following
function pointers:

=over 4

=item alloc_tmp_store()

Create a temporary method store.
This store is used to temporarily store methods for easier lookup, for
when the provider doesn't want its dispatch table stored in a longer
term cache.

=item dealloc_tmp_store()

Remove a temporary store.

=item get()

Look up an already existing method from a store.

The store may be given with C<store>.
B<NULL> is a valid value and means that a sub-system default store
must be used.
This default store should be stored in the library context C<libctx>.

The method to be looked up should be identified with data from C<data>
(which is the C<mcm_data> that was passed to ossl_construct_method())
and the provided property query C<propquery>.

This function is expected to increment the method's reference count.

=item put()

Places the C<method> created by the construct() function (see below)
in a store.

The store may be given with C<store>.
B<NULL> is a valid value and means that a sub-system default store
must be used.
This default store should be stored in the library context C<libctx>.

The method should be associated with the given property definition
C<propdef> and any identification data given through C<data> (which is
the C<mcm_data> that was passed to ossl_construct_method()).

This function is expected to increment the C<method>'s reference count.

=item construct()

Constructs a sub-system method given a dispatch table C<fns>.

The associated I<provider object> C<prov> is passed as well, to make
it possible for the sub-system constructor to keep a reference, which
is recommended.
If such a reference is kept, the I<provider object> reference counter
must be incremented, using ossl_provider_upref().

This function is expected to set the method's reference count to 1.

=item desctruct()

Decrement the C<method>'s reference count, and destruct it when
the reference count reaches zero.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ossl_method_construct() returns a constructed method on success, or
B<NULL> on error.

=head1 HISTORY

This functionality was added to OpenSSL 3.0.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use this
file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy in the file
LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
