=pod

=head1 NAME

cmp - client for the Certificate Management Protocol (RFC4210)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<cmp>
S<[B<-help>]>
S<[B<-config filename>]>
S<[B<-section names>]>

S<[B<-server address[:port]>]>
S<[B<-proxy address[:port]>]>
S<[B<-path remote_path>]>
S<[B<-msgtimeout seconds>]>
S<[B<-totaltimeout seconds>]>

S<[B<-trusted filenames>]>
S<[B<-untrustedE<nbsp>sources>]>
S<[B<-srvcert filename>]>
S<[B<-recipient name>]>
S<[B<-expect_sender name>]>
S<[B<-ignore_keyusage>]>
S<[B<-unprotectederrors>]>
S<[B<-extracertsout filename>]>
S<[B<-cacertsout filename>]>

S<[B<-ref value>]>
S<[B<-secret arg>]>
S<[B<-cert filename>]>
S<[B<-key filename>]>
S<[B<-keypass arg>]>
S<[B<-digest name>]>
S<[B<-extracerts sources>]>
S<[B<-unprotectedrequests>]>

S<[B<-cmd ir|cr|kur|p10cr|rr|genm>]>
S<[B<-infotype name>]>
S<[B<-geninfo OID:int:N>]>

S<[B<-newkey filename>]>
S<[B<-newkeypass arg>]>
S<[B<-subject name>]>
S<[B<-issuer name>]>
S<[B<-days number>]>
S<[B<-reqexts name>]>
S<[B<-sans spec>]>
S<[B<-san_nodefault>]>
S<[B<-policies names>]>
S<[B<-policies_critical>]>
S<[B<-popo number>]>
S<[B<-csr filename>]>
S<[B<-out_trusted filenames>]>
S<[B<-verify_hostname cn>]>
S<[B<-verify_ip ip>]>
S<[B<-verify_email email>]>
S<[B<-implicitconfirm>]>
S<[B<-disableconfirm>]>
S<[B<-certout filename>]>

S<[B<-oldcert filename>]>
S<[B<-revreason number>]>

S<[B<-ownform PEM|DER|P12>]>
S<[B<-keyform PEM|DER|P12>]>
S<[B<-crlform PEM|DER>]>
S<[B<-otherform PEM|DER|P12>]>
S<[B<-otherpass arg>]>
S<[B<-batch>]>
S<[B<-engine id>]>

S<[B<-tls_used>]>
S<[B<-tls_cert filename>]>
S<[B<-tls_key filename>]>
S<[B<-tls_keypass arg>]>
S<[B<-tls_extra filenames>]>
S<[B<-tls_trusted filenames>]>
S<[B<-tls_host name>]>

S<[B<-reqin>]>
S<[B<-reqout>]>
S<[B<-rspin>]>
S<[B<-rspout>]>

S<[B<-crl_check>]>
S<[B<-crl_check_all>]>
S<[B<-crl_download>]>
S<[B<-crls URLs>]>
S<[B<-ocsp_check_all>]>
S<[B<-ocsp_use_aia>]>
S<[B<-ocsp_url url>]>
S<[B<-ocsp_timeout seconds>]>
S<[B<-ocsp_status>]>
S<[B<-policy arg>]>
S<[B<-purpose purpose>]>
S<[B<-verify_nameE<nbsp>name>]>
S<[B<-verify_depth num>]>
S<[B<-auth_level level>]>
S<[B<-attimeE<nbsp>timestamp>]>
S<[B<-ignore_critical>]>
S<[B<-policy_check>]>
S<[B<-explicit_policy>]>
S<[B<-inhibit_any>]>
S<[B<-inhibit_map>]>
S<[B<-x509_strict>]>
S<[B<-extended_crl>]>
S<[B<-use_deltas>]>
S<[B<-policy_print>]>
S<[B<-check_ss_sig>]>
S<[B<-trusted_first>]>
S<[B<-suiteB_128_only>]>
S<[B<-suiteB_128>]>
S<[B<-suiteB_192>]>
S<[B<-partial_chain>]>
S<[B<-no_alt_chains>]>
S<[B<-no_check_time>]>
S<[B<-allow_proxy_certs>]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<cmp> command is a client implementation for the Certificate
Management Protocol (CMP) as defined in RFC4210. It can be used to
request certificates from a CA server, update their certificates,
request certificates to be revoked, and perform other CMP requests.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Display a summary of all options

=item B<-config filename>

Configuration file to use. An empty string C<""> means none.
Default file name is taken from the environment variable C<OPENSSL_CONF>.

=item B<-section names>

Section(s) to use within config file defining CMP options.
An empty string C<""> means no specific section. Default is C<cmp>.
Multiple section names may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.
Contents of sections named later may override contents of sections named before.
In any case, as usual, the S<C<[default]>> section and finally the unnamed
section (as far as present) can provide per-option fallback values.

=back


=head2 Message transfer options

=over 4

=item B<-server address[:port]>

The IP address or hostname and port (defaults to 8080)
of the CMP server to connect to using HTTP/S transport.

=item B<-proxy address[:port]>

The IP address or hostname and port (defaults to 8080) of the HTTP proxy server,
which can be given if needed for accessing the CMP server.
TLS is not yet supported via proxy.
The environment variable C<no_proxy> (or else C<NO_PROXY>) is respected.

=item B<-path remote_path>

HTTP path location to use for the CMP server (aka CMP alias). Defaults to "/".

=item B<-msgtimeout seconds>

Number of seconds (or 0 for infinite) a CMP message round trip is
allowed to take before a timeout error is returned. Default is 120.

=item B<-totaltimeout seconds>

Maximum number seconds an enrollment may take, including attempts polling for
certificates on C<waiting> PKIStatus. Default is 0 (infinite).

=back


=head2 Server authentication options

=over 4

=item B<-trusted filenames>

When verifying signature-based protection of CMP response messages,
these are the CA certificate(s) to trust while checking certificate chains
during CMP server authentication.
This option gives more flexibility than the B<-srvcert> option because
it does not pin down the expected CMP server by allowing only one certificate.

Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.
Each source may contain multiple certificates.

=item B<-untrusted sources>

Non-trusted intermediate certificate(s) that may be useful
for constructing certificate chains when verifying
the CMP server (when checking signature-based CMP message protection),
the TLS server (when establishing TLS connections),
and/or the newly enrolled certificate.
These may get added to the extraCerts field sent in requests as far as needed.

Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
Each file may contain multiple certificates.

=item B<-srvcert filename>

The specific CMP server certificate to use and trust directly
when verifying signature-based protection of CMP response messages.
May be set alternatively to the B<-trusted> option
if the certificate is available and only this one shall be accepted.

If set, the issuer of the certificate is also used as the recipient of the CMP
request and as the expected sender of the CMP response,
overriding any potential B<-recipient> option.

=item B<-recipient name>

Distinguished Name (DN) of the CMP message recipient,
i.e., the CMP server (usually a CA or RA entity).

The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by C<\>E<nbsp>(backslash), no spaces are skipped.

If a CMP server certificate is given with the B<-srvcert> option, its subject
name is taken as the recipient name and the B<-recipient> option is ignored.
If neither of the two are given, the recipient of the PKI message is
determined in the following order: from the B<-issuer> option if present,
the issuer of old cert given with the B<-oldcert> option if present,
the issuer of the client certificate (B<-cert> option) if present.

Setting the recipient field in the CMP header is mandatory.
If none of the above options allowing to derive the recipient name is given,
no suitable value for the recipient in the PKIHeader is available.
As last resort it is set to NULL-DN.

When a response is received, its sender must match the recipient of the request.

=item B<-expect_sender name>

Distinguished Name (DN) of the expected sender of CMP response messages when
MSG_SIG_ALG is used for protection. This can be used to ensure that only a
particular entity is accepted to act as CMP server, and attackers are not
able to use arbitrary certificates of a trusted PKI hieararchy to fraudulently
pose as CMP server. Note that this option gives slightly more freedom than
B<-srvcert> which pins down the server to a particular certificate, while
B<-expect_sender name> will continue to match after updates of the server cert.

The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by C<\>E<nbsp>(backslash), no spaces are skipped.

If not given, the subject DN of B<-srvcert>, if provided, will be used.

=item B<-ignore_keyusage>

Ignore key usage restrictions in CMP signer certificates when verifying
signature-based protection of incoming CMP messages,
else C<digitalSignature> must be allowed for signer certificate.

=item B<-unprotectederrors>

Accept unprotected messages by the server even if they should have been
protected.  This applies to the following message types received from the
server:

=over 4

=item * error messages

=item * negative certificate responses (IP/CP/KUP) and revocation responses (RP)

=item * PKIConf

=back

B<WARNING:> This setting leads to unspecified behavior and it is meant
exclusively to allow interoperability with server implementations violating
RFC 4210, e.g.:

=over 4

=item * section 5.1.3.1 allows exceptions from protecting only for special
cases:
"There MAY be cases in which the PKIProtection BIT STRING is deliberately not
used to protect a message [...] because other protection, external to PKIX, will
be applied instead."

=item * section 5.3.21 is clear on ErrMsgContent: "The CA MUST always sign it
with a signature key."

=item * appendix D.4 shows PKIConf having protection

=back

=item B<-extracertsout filename>

The file where to save any extra certificates received in a response message.

=item B<-cacertsout filename>

The file where to save any received CA certificates.

=back


=head2 Client authentication options

=over 4

=item B<-ref value>

Reference number/value to use as senderKID; this is required
if no sender name can be determined from the B<-cert> or <-subject> options and
is typically used when authenticating with pre-shared key (password-based MAC).

=item B<-secret arg>

Source of secret value to use for authenticating with pre-shared keys
(password-based MAC). This takes precedence over the B<-cert> option.

For more information about the format of B<arg> see the
B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-cert filename>

The client's currently existing certificate. Unless the B<-secret> option
indicating PBM is given, this will be used for signature-based message
protection. Requires for the corresponding key to be given with B<-key>.
For IR this can be used for authenticating a request message
using an external entity certificate as defined in appendix E.7 of RFC 4210.
For KUR this is also used as certificate to be updated if the B<-oldcert>
option is not given.
If the file includes further certs, they are appended to the untrusted certs.
These may get added to the extraCerts field sent in requests as far as needed.

=item B<-key filename>

The corresponding private key file for the client's current certificate given in
the B<-cert> option.

=item B<-keypass arg>

Pass phrase source for the private key given with the B<-key> option.
Also used for B<-cert> and B<-oldcert> in case it is an encrypted PKCS#12 file.
If not given here, the password will be prompted for if needed.

For more information about the format of B<arg> see the
B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-digest name>

Specifies name of supported digest to use in RFC 4210's MSG_SIG_ALG.
If applicable, this is used for message protection and
Proof-of-Possession (POPO) signatures.
To see the list of supported digests, use B<openssl list -digest-commands>.
Defaults to C<sha256>.

=item B<-extracerts sources>

Certificates to append in the extraCerts field when sending messages.

Multiple file names or URLs may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.
Each source may contain multiple certificates.

=item B<-unprotectedrequests>

Send messages without CMP-level protection.

=back


=head2 Generic message options

=over 4

=item B<-cmd ir|cr|kur|p10cr|rr|genm>

CMP command to execute. Currently implemented commands are:

=over 8

=item  ir E<nbsp>  - Initialization Request

=item  cr E<nbsp>  - Certificate Request

=item  p10cr - PKCS#10 Certification Request (for legacy support)

=item  kur E<nbsp>E<nbsp>- Key Update Request

=item  rr E<nbsp>  - Revocation Request

=item  genm  - General Message

=back

B<ir> requests initialization of an End Entity into a PKI hierarchy by means of
issuance of a first certificate.

B<cr> requests issuance of an additional certificate for an End Entity already
initialized to the PKI hierarchy.

B<p10cr> requests issuance of an additional certificate similarly to B<cr>
but uses PKCS#10 CSR format.

B<kur> requests (key) update for an existing, given certificate.

B<rr> requests revocation of an existing, given certificate.

B<genm> requests information using a General Message, where optionally
included B<InfoTypeAndValue>s may be used to state which info is of interest.
Upon receipt of the General Response, information about all received
ITAV B<infoType>s is printed to stdout.

=item B<-infotype name>

Set InfoType name to use for requesting specific info in B<genm>,
e.g., C<signKeyPairTypes>.

=item B<-geninfo OID:int:N>

Set generalInfo in request PKIHeader with type OID and integer value N,
e.g., C<1.2.3:int:987>.

=back


=head2 Certificate request options

=over 4

=item B<-newkey filename>

The file containing the private key corresponding to the requested certificate
in IR, CR or KUR.  Default is the current client key if given.

=item B<-newkeypass arg>

Pass phrase source for the key given with the B<-newkey> option.
If not given here, the password will be prompted for if needed.

For more information about the format of B<arg> see the
B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-subject name>

X509 Distinguished Name (DN) of subject to use in the requested certificate
template. For KUR, it defaults to the subject DN of the reference certificate
(see B<-oldcert>). This default is used for IR and CR only if no SANs are set.

The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by C<\>E<nbsp>(backslash), no spaces are skipped.

In case B<-cert> is not set, for instance when using MSG_MAC_ALG,
the subject DN is also used as sender of the PKI message.

=item B<-issuer name>

X509 issuer Distinguished Name (DN) of the CA server
to be put in the requested certificate template in IR/CR/KUR.

The argument must be formatted as I</type0=value0/type1=value1/type2=...>,
characters may be escaped by C<\>E<nbsp>(backslash), no spaces are skipped.

If neither B<-srvcert> nor B<-recipient> is available,
the name given in this option is also set as the recipient of the CMP message.

=item B<-days number>

Number of days the new certificate is asked to be valid for.

=item B<-reqexts name>

Name of section in OpenSSL config file defining certificate request extensions.

=item B<-sans spec>

One or more DNS names or IP addresses, separated by commas or whitespace,
to add as Subject Alternative Name(s) (SAN) certificate request extension.
If the special element "critical" is given the SANs are flagged as critical.
Cannot be used if any Subject Alternative Name extension is set via B<-reqexts>.

=item B<-san_nodefault>

When Subject Alternative Names are not given via B<-sans>
nor defined via B<-reqexts>,
they are copied by default from the reference certificate (see B<-oldcert>).
This can be disabled by giving the B<-san_nodefault> option.

=item B<-policies names>

One or more OID(s), separated by commas or whitespace,
to add as certificate policies request extension.

=item B<-policies_critical>

Flag the policies given with B<-policies> as critical.

=item B<-popo number>

Set Proof-of-Possession (POPO) method; values: C<-1>..<2> where
C<-1> = NONE, C<0> = RAVERIFIED, C<1> = SIGNATURE (default), C<2> = KEYENC.

=item B<-csr filename>

CSR in PKCS#10 format to use in p10cr. This is for supporting legacy clients.

=item B<-out_trusted filenames>

Trusted certificate(s) to use for verifying the newly enrolled certificate.

Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.
Each source may contain multiple certificates.

=item B<-verify_hostname name>

When verification of the newly enrolled certificate is enabled (with the
B<-out_trusted> option), check if any DNS Subject Alternative Name (or if no
DNS SAN is included, the Common Name in the subject) equals the given B<name>.

=item B<-verify_ip ip>

When verification of the newly enrolled certificate is enabled (with the
B<-out_trusted> option), check if there is
an IP address Subject Alternative Name matching the given IP address.

=item B<-verify_email email>

When verification of the newly enrolled certificate is enabled (with the
B<-out_trusted> option), check if there is
an email address Subject Alternative Name matching the given email address.

=item B<-implicitconfirm>

Request implicit confirmation of the newly enrolled certificate.

=item B<-disableconfirm>

Do not send certificate confirmation message for newly enrolled certificate to
cope with broken servers not supporting implicit confirmation correctly.

=item B<-certout filename>

The file where the newly enrolled certificate should be saved.

=back


=head2 Certificate revocation options

=over 4

=item B<-oldcert filename>

The certificate to be updated (i.e., renewed or re-keyed) in KUR
or to be revoked in RR. It must be given for RR, else it defaults to B<-cert>.

The reference certificate determined in this way, if any, is also used for
deriving default subject DN and Subject Alternative Names for IR, CR, and KUR.
Its issuer, if any, is used as default recipient in the CMP message header
if neither B<-srvcert>, B<-recipient>, nor B<-issuer> is available.

=item B<-revreason number>

Set CRLReason to be included in revocation request (RR); values: C<0>..C<10>
or C<-1> for none (which is the default).

Reason numbers defined in RFC 5280 are:

   CRLReason ::= ENUMERATED {
        unspecified             (0),
        keyCompromise           (1),
        cACompromise            (2),
        affiliationChanged      (3),
        superseded              (4),
        cessationOfOperation    (5),
        certificateHold         (6),
             -- value 7 is not used
        removeFromCRL           (8),
        privilegeWithdrawn      (9),
        aACompromise           (10)
    }

=back


=head2 Credentials format options

=over 4

=item B<-ownform PEM|DER|P12>

Format to try first when reading files and to use for writing files containing
own (i.e., client-side) certificates.
Default value is PEM.

=item B<-keyform PEM|DER|P12>

Format to try first when reading key files. Default value is PEM.

=item B<-crlform PEM|DER>

Format to try first when reading CRL files. Default value is PEM.

=item B<-otherform PEM|DER|P12>

Format to try first when reading files and to use for writing files containing
certificates of other parties (i.e., the server side).
Default value is PEM.

=item B<-otherpass arg>

Pass phrase source for certificate given with the B<-trusted>, B<-untrusted>,
B<-out_trusted>, B<-extracerts>, B<-tls_extra>, or B<-tls_trusted> options.
If not given here, the password will be prompted for if needed.

For more information about the format of B<arg> see the
B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-batch>

Do not interactively prompt for input, for instance when a password is needed.
This can be useful for batch processing and testing.

=item B<-engine id>

Specifying an crypto engine B<id> will cause L<cmp(1)> to obtain a functional
reference to the specified engine, thus initializing it if needed. The engine
will be used for all algorithms supported for keys prefixed by C<engine:>.
Engines may be defined in the OpenSSL config file as usual in an engine section.

Options specifying keys, like B<-key>, B<-newkey>, B<-tls_key> can prefix
C<engine:> to engine-specific identifiers for security tokens objects held by
the engine. The following example utilizes the RFC 7512 PKCS #11 URI scheme as
supported e.g. by libp11:
S<C<-key engine:pkcs11:object=my-private-key;type=private;pin-value=1234>>

=back


=head2 TLS options

=over 4

=item B<-tls_used>

Force using TLS (even when other TLS_related options are not set)
when connecting to CMP server.

=item B<-tls_cert filename>

Client's TLS certificate. If the file includes further certificates,
they are provided to the TLS server as the client certificate chain.

=item B<-tls_key filename>

Private key for the client's TLS certificate.

=item B<-tls_keypass arg>

Pass phrase source for client's private TLS key B<tls_key>.
Also used for B<-tls_cert> in case it is an encrypted PKCS#12 file.
If not given here, the password will be prompted for if needed.

For more information about the format of B<arg> see the
B<PASS PHRASE ARGUMENTS> section in L<openssl(1)>.

=item B<-tls_extra filenames>

Extra certificates to provide to TLS server during TLS handshake

=item B<-tls_trusted filenames>

Trusted certificate(s) to use for verifying the TLS server certificate.
This implies host name validation.

Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas or whitespace.
Each source may contain multiple certificates.

=item B<-tls_host name>

Address to be checked (rather than B<-server> address) during host name
validation. This may be a Common Name, a DNS name, or an IP address.

=back


=head2 Testing and debugging options

=over 4

=item B<-reqin>

Take sequence of CMP requests from file(s).
Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
As many files are read as needed for a complete transaction.

=item B<-reqout>

Save sequence of CMP requests to file(s).
Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
As many files are written as needed to store the complete transaction.

=item B<-rspin>

Process sequence of CMP responses provided in file(s), skipping server.
Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
As many files are read as needed for the complete transaction.

=item B<-rspout>

Save sequence of CMP responses to file(s).
Multiple file names may be given, separated by commas and/or whitespace.
As many files are written as needed to store the complete transaction.

=back


=head2 Certificate verification options, for both CMP and TLS

=over 4

=item B<-crl_check>

The B<-crl_check>, B<-crl_download>, and B<-crls> options enable mandatory
certificate status checking for at least the leaf certificate
using CRLs unless OCSP is enabled and succeeds.

=item B<-crl_check_all>

Extend revocation status checking (using CRLs) to full certificate chain.

=item B<-crl_download>

Retrieve CRLs from distribution points given in certificates,
as primary source.

This option enables CRL checking for, e.g., the CMP/TLS server certificate
as it is the leaf certificate of the certificate chain.
Compare B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK>.

=item B<-crls URLs>

Use given CRL(s) as secondary source of certificate revocation information. The
URLs argument may be a single element or a comma- or whitespace-separated list,
each element starting with C<http:> or C<file:> or being simply a local file name.

This option enables CRL checking for, e.g., the CMP/TLS server certificate
as it is the leaf certificate of the certificate chain.
Compare B<X509_V_FLAG_CRL_CHECK>.

=item B<-ocsp_check_all>

Require revocation status checking (via OCSP) for full certificate chain.
On OCSP response error try revocation status checking using CRLs if enabled.
This option has little sense without B<-ocsp_use_aia> or B<-ocsp_url>.

=item B<-ocsp_use_aia>

Use OCSP with any AIA entries in certificates as primary URL of OCSP responder.
On OCSP response error try revocation status checking using CRLs if enabled.

=item B<-ocsp_url url>

Use OCSP with given URL as secondary (fallback) address of OCSP responder.
On OCSP response error try revocation status checking using CRLs if enabled.

=item B<-ocsp_timeout seconds>

Timeout for retrieving responses from OCSP responders (or 0 for none).
Default is 10 seconds.

=item B<-ocsp_status>

Enable certificate status for TLS server certificate via OCSP stapling.
Multi-stapling is not (yet) supported. Not available before OpenSSL 1.1.

=item B<-policy>, B<-purpose>, B<-verify_name>, B<-verify_depth>,
B<-auth_level>, B<-attime>, B<-ignore_critical>, B<-policy_check>,
B<-explicit_policy>, B<-inhibit_any>, B<-inhibit_map>, B<-x509_strict>,
B<-extended_crl>, B<-use_deltas>, B<-policy_print>, B<-check_ss_sig>,
B<-trusted_first>, B<-suiteB_128_only>, B<-suiteB_128>, B<-suiteB_192>,
B<-partial_chain>, B<-no_alt_chains>, B<-no_check_time>, B<-allow_proxy_certs>

Set various certificate chain validation options.
See the L<verify(1)> manual page for details.

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

Note:
when using CMP for the first time and experimenting with enrollment options
it typically happens that errors occur until the configuration is correct.
When the server side reports an error via CMP the client will by default
check the protection of the response message. Yet there are CMP services
based on EJBCA, which tends not to protect negative responses. In this case
the client will reject such error responses and their contents are not shown
although they usually contain hints that would be helpful for debugging.
In order to support debugging the setup the CMP client offers a workaround
via the B<-unprotectederrors> option, which allows accepting such messages.

Note: in these examples the C<\> at line ends means
the invocation should be all on one line.

=head2 Certificate enrollment

For enrolling its very first certificate the client generates a first client key
and sends an initial request message to a CMP server running on the local host,
using a pre-shared secret key for mutual authentication. In this example the
client does not have the CA certificate yet, so we specify the name of the CA
with the B<-recipient> option and save any CA certificates that we may receive
in the C<capubs.pem> file.

  openssl genrsa -out cl_key.pem
  openssl cmp -cmd ir -server 127.0.0.1:8080 -path pkix/ \
    -ref 1234 -secret pass:1234-5678-1234-5678 \
    -recipient "/CN=CMPserver" \
    -newkey cl_key.pem -subject "/CN=MyName" \
    -cacertsout capubs.pem -certout cl_cert.pem

=head2 Certificate update

Then, when the client certificate and its related key pair needs to be updated,
the client can send a key update request taking the certs in C<capubs.pem>
as trusted for authenticating the server and using the previous cert and key
for its own authentication. Then it can start using the new cert and key.

  openssl genrsa -out cl_key_new.pem
  openssl cmp -cmd kur -server 127.0.0.1:8080 -path pkix/ \
    -trusted capubs.pem \
    -cert cl_cert.pem -key cl_key.pem \
    -newkey cl_key_new.pem -certout cl_cert.pem
  cp cl_key_new.pem cl_key.pem

This command sequence can be repated as often as needed.

=head2 Using a configuration file

For CMP client invocations, in particular for certificate enrollment,
usually many parameters need to be set, which is tedious and error-prone to do
on the command line. Therefore the client also offers the possibility to read
options from sections of the OpenSSL config file, usually called B<openssl.cnf>.
The values found there can still be extended and even overridden by any
subsequently loaded sections and on the command line.

After including in the configuration file the following sections:

  [cmp]
  server = 127.0.0.1:8080
  path = pkix/
  trusted = capubs.pem
  cert = cl_cert.pem
  key = cl_key.pem
  newkey = cl_key.pem
  certout = cl_cert.pem

  [cmp-init]
  recipient = "/CN=CMPserver"
  trusted =
  cert =
  key =
  ref = 1234
  secret = pass:1234-5678-1234-567
  subject = "/CN=MyName"
  cacertsout = capubs.pem

the above enrollment invocations reduce to

  openssl cmp -section cmp,cmp-init
  openssl cmp -cmd kur -newkey cl_key_new.pem

=head2 Requesting information from CMP server

Requesting "all relevant information" with an empty General Message.
This prints information about all received ITAV B<infoType>s to stdout.

  openssl cmp -cmd genm -server 127.0.0.1:8080 -path pkix/ \
    -ref 1234 -secret pass:1234-5678-1234-5678 \
    -recipient "/CN=CMPserver"

Making use of the configuration file sectins given above, this call reduces to

  openssl cmp -section cmp,cmp-init -cmd genm

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<genrsa(1)|genrsa(1)>, L<list(1)|list(1)>, L<x509v3_config(5)|x509(1)>

=cut
