=pod

=head1 NAME

evp_test - OpenSSL EVP test command line program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<evp_test>
[ I<options> ... ]
[ I<testfile> ]

B<evp_test> B<-help>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Test tool for various implementations of crypto algorithms.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Provides a terse summary of all options.

=item B<-config> I<filename>

The I<filename> specifies configuration file to use for the libctx.

=item B<-list>

Display the list of tests available.

=item B<-test> I<name>

Run a single test by id or name.

=item B<-iter> I<int>

Run a single iteration of a test.

=item B<-indent> I<int>

Number of tabs added to output.

=item B<-seed> I<int>

Seed value to randomize tests with.

=item B<-process> I<in_place|both>

Mode for data processing by cipher tests, both by default.

=item B<-provider> I<name>

Load and initialize the provider identified by I<name>.
When no configuration file, the default value is 'default'.
See L<provider(7)> for a more detailed description.

=item B<-propquery> I<propq>

Specifies the I<property query clause> to be used when fetching algorithms
from the loaded providers.
See L<property(7)> for a more detailed description.

=item B<testfile>

File to run tests on.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2023 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
