=pod

=head1 NAME

openssl-list,
list - list algorithms and features

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl list>
[B<-help>]
[B<-1>]
[B<-commands>]
[B<-digest-commands>]
[B<-digest-algorithms>]
[B<-mac-algorithms>]
[B<-cipher-commands>]
[B<-cipher-algorithms>]
[B<-public-key-algorithms>]
[B<-public-key-methods>]
[B<-engines>]
[B<-disabled>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to generate list of algorithms or disabled
features.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message.

=item B<-1>

List the commands, digest-commands, or cipher-commands in a single column.
If used, this option must be given first.

=item B<-commands>

Display a list of standard commands.

=item B<-digest-commands>

Display a list of message digest commands, which are typically used
as input to the L<dgst(1)> or L<speed(1)> commands.

=item B<-digest-algorithms>

Display a list of message digest algorithms.
If a line is of the form C<foo =E<gt> bar> then B<foo> is an alias for the
official algorithm name, B<bar>.

=item B<-mac-algorithms>

Display a list of message authentication code algorithms.
If a line is of the form C<foo =E<gt> bar> then B<foo> is an alias for the
official algorithm name, B<bar>.

=item B<-cipher-commands>

Display a list of cipher commands, which are typically used as input
to the L<dgst(1)> or L<speed(1)> commands.

=item B<-cipher-algorithms>

Display a list of cipher algorithms.
If a line is of the form C<foo =E<gt> bar> then B<foo> is an alias for the
official algorithm name, B<bar>.

=item B<-public-key-algorithms>

Display a list of public key algorithms, with each algorithm as
a block of multiple lines, all but the first are indented.

=item B<-public-key-methods>

Display a list of public key method OIDs: this also includes public key methods
without an associated ASN.1 method, for example, KDF algorithms.

=item B<-engines>

Display a list of loaded engines.

=item B<-disabled>

Display a list of disabled features, those that were compiled out
of the installation.

=item B<-objects>

Display a list of built in objects, i.e. OIDs with names.  They're listed in the
format described in L<config(5)/ASN1 Object Configuration Module>.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
