=pod

=head1 NAME

openssl-rand - generate pseudo-random bytes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl rand>
[B<-help>]
[B<-out> I<file>]
[B<-rand> I<files>]
[B<-writerand> I<file>]
[B<-base64>]
[B<-hex>]
I<num>

=for comment ifdef engine

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command outputs I<num> pseudo-random bytes after seeding
the random number generator once.  As in other B<openssl> command
line tools, PRNG seeding uses the file F<$HOME/.rnd> or F<.rnd>
in addition to the files given in the B<-rand> option.  A new
F<$HOME/.rnd> or F<.rnd> file will be written back if enough
seeding was obtained from these sources.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

=item B<-out> I<file>

Write to I<file> instead of standard output.

=item B<-rand> I<files>

The files containing random data used to seed the random number generator.
Multiple files can be specified separated by an OS-dependent character.
The separator is B<;> for MS-Windows, B<,> for OpenVMS, and B<:> for
all others.

=item B<-writerand> I<file>

Writes random data to the specified I<file> upon exit.
This can be used with a subsequent B<-rand> flag.

=item B<-base64>

Perform base64 encoding on the output.

=item B<-hex>

Show the output as a hex string.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl(1)>,
L<RAND_bytes(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
