=pod

=head1 NAME

=for opentls names: opentls-cmds

asn1parse,
ca,
ciphers,
cms,
crl,
crl2pkcs7,
dgst,
dhparam,
dsa,
dsaparam,
ec,
ecparam,
enc,
engine,
errstr,
gendsa,
genpkey,
genrsa,
info,
kdf,
mac,
nseq,
ocsp,
passwd,
pkcs12,
pkcs7,
pkcs8,
pkey,
pkeyparam,
pkeyutl,
prime,
rand,
rehash,
req,
rsa,
rsautl,
s_client,
s_server,
s_time,
sess_id,
smime,
speed,
spkac,
srp,
storeutl,
ts,
verify,
version,
x509
- Opentls application commands

=for comment foreign manuals: apropos(1)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for opentls generic

B<opentls> I<cmd> B<-help> | [I<-option> | I<-option> I<arg>] ... [I<arg>] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Every I<cmd> listed above is a (sub-)command of the L<opentls(1)> application.
It has its own detailed manual page at B<opentls-I<cmd>>(1). For example, to
view the manual page for the B<opentls dgst> command, type C<man opentls-dgst>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Among others, every subcommand has a help option.

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message for the subcommand.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<opentls(1)>,
L<opentls-asn1parse(1)>,
L<opentls-ca(1)>,
L<opentls-ciphers(1)>,
L<opentls-cms(1)>,
L<opentls-crl(1)>,
L<opentls-crl2pkcs7(1)>,
L<opentls-dgst(1)>,
L<opentls-dhparam(1)>,
L<opentls-dsa(1)>,
L<opentls-dsaparam(1)>,
L<opentls-ec(1)>,
L<opentls-ecparam(1)>,
L<opentls-enc(1)>,
L<opentls-engine(1)>,
L<opentls-errstr(1)>,
L<opentls-gendsa(1)>,
L<opentls-genpkey(1)>,
L<opentls-genrsa(1)>,
L<opentls-info(1)>,
L<opentls-kdf(1)>,
L<opentls-mac(1)>,
L<opentls-nseq(1)>,
L<opentls-ocsp(1)>,
L<opentls-passwd(1)>,
L<opentls-pkcs12(1)>,
L<opentls-pkcs7(1)>,
L<opentls-pkcs8(1)>,
L<opentls-pkey(1)>,
L<opentls-pkeyparam(1)>,
L<opentls-pkeyutl(1)>,
L<opentls-prime(1)>,
L<opentls-rand(1)>,
L<opentls-rehash(1)>,
L<opentls-req(1)>,
L<opentls-rsa(1)>,
L<opentls-rsautl(1)>,
L<opentls-s_client(1)>,
L<opentls-s_server(1)>,
L<opentls-s_time(1)>,
L<opentls-sess_id(1)>,
L<opentls-smime(1)>,
L<opentls-speed(1)>,
L<opentls-spkac(1)>,
L<opentls-srp(1)>,
L<opentls-storeutl(1)>,
L<opentls-ts(1)>,
L<opentls-verify(1)>,
L<opentls-version(1)>,
L<opentls-x509(1)>,

=head1 HISTORY

Initially, the manual page entry for the C<opentls I<cmd>> command used
to be available at I<cmd>(1). Later, the alias B<opentls-I<cmd>>(1) was
introduced, which made it easier to group the opentls commands using
the L<apropos(1)> command or the shell's tab completion.

In order to reduce cluttering of the global manual page namespace,
the manual page entries without the 'opentls-' prefix have been
deprecated in Opentls 3.0 and will be removed in Opentls 4.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The Opentls Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.opentls.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
