=pod

=head1 NAME

openssl-list - list algorithms and features

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl list>
[B<-help>]
[B<-verbose>]
[B<-1>]
[B<-commands>]
[B<-digest-commands>]
[B<-digest-algorithms>]
[B<-kdf-algorithms>]
[B<-mac-algorithms>]
[B<-cipher-commands>]
[B<-cipher-algorithms>]
[B<-public-key-algorithms>]
[B<-public-key-methods>]
[B<-engines>]
[B<-disabled>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to generate list of algorithms or disabled
features.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Display a usage message.

=item B<-verbose>

Displays extra information.
The options below where verbosity applies say a bit more about what that means.

=item B<-1>

List the commands, digest-commands, or cipher-commands in a single column.
If used, this option must be given first.

=item B<-commands>

Display a list of standard commands.

=item B<-digest-commands>

Display a list of message digest commands, which are typically used
as input to the L<openssl-dgst(1)> or L<openssl-speed(1)> commands.

=item B<-cipher-commands>

Display a list of cipher commands, which are typically used as input
to the L<openssl-dgst(1)> or L<openssl-speed(1)> commands.

=item B<-digest-algorithms>, B<-kdf-algorithms>, B<-mac-algorithms>,
B<-cipher-algorithms>

Display a list of cipher, digest, kdf and mac algorithms.
See L</Display of algorithm names> for a description of how names are
displayed.

In verbose mode, the algorithms provided by a provider will get additional
information on what parameters each implementation supports.

=item B<-public-key-algorithms>

Display a list of public key algorithms, with each algorithm as
a block of multiple lines, all but the first are indented.

=item B<-public-key-methods>

Display a list of public key method OIDs.

=item B<-engines>

Display a list of loaded engines.

=item B<-disabled>

Display a list of disabled features, those that were compiled out
of the installation.

=item B<-objects>

Display a list of built in objects, i.e. OIDs with names.  They're listed in the
format described in L<config(5)/ASN1 Object Configuration Module>.

=back

=head2 Display of algorithm names

Algorithm names may be displayed in one of two manners:

=over 4

=item Legacy implementations

Legacy implementations will simply display the main name of the
algorithm on a line of its own, or in the form C<<foo > bar>> to show
that C<foo> is an alias for the main name, C<bar>

=item Provided implementations

Implementations from a provider are displayed like this if the
implementation is labeled with a single name:

 foo @ bar

or like this if it's labeled with multiple names:

 { foo1, foo2 } @bar

In both cases, C<bar> is the name of the provider.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
