=pod

=head1 NAME

openssl-pkcs7 - PKCS#7 utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl> B<pkcs7>
[B<-help>]
[B<-inform> B<DER>|B<PEM>]
[B<-outform> B<DER>|B<PEM>]
[B<-in> I<filename>]
[B<-out> I<filename>]
[B<-print_certs>]
[B<-text>]
[B<-noout>]
[B<-engine> I<id>]

=for openssl ifdef engine

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command processes PKCS#7 files.  Note that it only understands PKCS#7
v 1.5 as specified in IETF RFC 2315.  It cannot currently parse CMS as
described in IETF RFC 2630.

There is no option to print out all the fields of a PKCS#7 file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

=item B<-inform> B<DER>|B<PEM>, B<-outform> B<DER>|B<PEM>

The input and formats; the default is B<PEM>.
See L<openssl(1)/Format Options> for details.

The data is a PKCS#7 Version 1.5 structure.

=item B<-in> I<filename>

This specifies the input filename to read from or standard input if this
option is not specified.

=item B<-out> I<filename>

Specifies the output filename to write to or standard output by
default.

=item B<-print_certs>

Prints out any certificates or CRLs contained in the file. They are
preceded by their subject and issuer names in one line format.

=item B<-text>

Prints out certificates details in full rather than just subject and
issuer names.

=item B<-noout>

Don't output the encoded version of the PKCS#7 structure (or certificates
is B<-print_certs> is set).

=item B<-engine> I<id>

Specifying an engine (by its unique I<id> string) will cause this command
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Convert a PKCS#7 file from PEM to DER:

 openssl pkcs7 -in file.pem -outform DER -out file.der

Output all certificates in a file:

 openssl pkcs7 -in file.pem -print_certs -out certs.pem

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl(1)>,
L<openssl-crl2pkcs7(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
