=pod

=head1 NAME

openssl-speed,
speed - test library performance

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<openssl speed>
[B<-help>]
[B<-engine id>]
[B<-elapsed>]
[B<-evp algo>]
[B<-decrypt>]
[B<-rand file...>]
[B<-writerand file>]
[B<algorithm...>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command is used to test the performance of cryptographic algorithms.
To see the list of supported algorithms, use the I<list --digest-commands>
or I<list --cipher-commands> command. The global CSPRNG is denoted by
the I<rand> algorithm name.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Print out a usage message.

=item B<-engine id>

Specifying an engine (by its unique B<id> string) will cause B<speed>
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.

=item B<-elapsed>

Measure time in real time instead of CPU time. It can be useful when testing
speed of hardware engines.

=item B<-evp algo>

Use the specified cipher or message digest algorithm via the EVP interface.

=item B<-decrypt>

Time the decryption instead of encryption. Affects only the EVP testing.

=item B<-rand file...>

A file or files containing random data used to seed the random number
generator.
Multiple files can be specified separated by an OS-dependent character.
The separator is B<;> for MS-Windows, B<,> for OpenVMS, and B<:> for
all others.

=item [B<-writerand file>]

Writes random data to the specified I<file> upon exit.
This can be used with a subsequent B<-rand> flag.

=item B<[zero or more test algorithms]>

If any options are given, B<speed> tests those algorithms, otherwise all of
the above are tested.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
