=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_SESSION_get_protocol_version - retrieve session protocol version

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 int SSL_SESSION_get_protocol_version(const SSL_SESSION *s);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_SESSION_get_protocol_version() returns the time at which the session B<s> was
established. The time is given in seconds since the Epoch and therefore
compatible to the time delivered by the time() call.

SSL_SESSION_set_time() replaces the creation time of the session B<s> with
the chosen value B<tm>.

SSL_SESSION_get_timeout() returns the timeout value set for session B<s>
in seconds.

SSL_SESSION_set_timeout() sets the timeout value for session B<s> in seconds
to B<tm>.

The SSL_get_time(), SSL_set_time(), SSL_get_timeout(), and SSL_set_timeout()
functions are synonyms for the SSL_SESSION_*() counterparts.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

SSL_SESSION_get_protocol_version() returns a number indicating the protocol
version used for the session; this number matches the constants I<e.g.>
B<TLS1_VERSION> or B<TLS1_2_VERSION>.

If the function is passed the NULL pointer for the session B<s>, 0 is returned.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_timeout(3)>,
L<SSL_get_default_timeout(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
