=pod

=head1 NAME

ASYNC_init_pool, ASYNC_free_pool, ASYNC_start_job, ASYNC_pause_job,
ASYNC_in_job, ASYNC_get_wait_fd, ASYNC_get_current_job, ASYNC_wake,
ASYNC_clear_wake - asynchronous job management functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/async.h>

 int ASYNC_init_pool(size_t max_size, size_t init_size);
 void ASYNC_free_pool(void);

 int ASYNC_start_job(ASYNC_JOB **job, int *ret, int (*func)(void *),
                     void *args, size_t size);
 int ASYNC_pause_job(void);

 int ASYNC_get_wait_fd(ASYNC_JOB *job);
 ASYNC_JOB *ASYNC_get_current_job(void);
 void ASYNC_wake(ASYNC_JOB *job);
 void ASYNC_clear_wake(ASYNC_JOB *job);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL implements asynchronous capabilities through an ASYNC_JOB. This
represents code that can be started and executes until some event occurs. At
that point the code can be paused and control returns to user code until some
subsequent event indicates that the job can be resumed.

The creation of an ASYNC_JOB is a relatively expensive operation. Therefore, for
efficiency reasons, jobs can be created up front and reused many times. They are
held in a pool until they are needed, at which point they are removed from the
pool, used, and then returned to the pool when the job completes. Before using
any of the asynchronous job functions, user code should first call
ASYNC_init_pool(). If the user application is multi-threaded, then this should
be done for each thread that will initiate asynchronous jobs. Before user code
exits it should free the pool up (for each thread where a pool was initialised)
using ASYNC_free_pool(). The B<max_size> argument limits the number of
ASYNC_JOBs that will be held in the pool. If B<max_size> is set to 0 then no
upper limit is set. When an ASYNC_JOB is needed but there are none available in
the pool already then one will be automatically created, as long as the total
of ASYNC_JOBs managed by the pool does not exceed B<max_size>. When the pool is
first initialised B<init_size> ASYNC_JOBs will be created immediately. If
ASYNC_init_pool() is not called before the pool is first used then it will be
called automatically with a B<max_size> of 0 (no upper limit) and an
B<init_size> of 0 (no ASYNC_JOBs created up front). If a pool is created in this
way it must still be cleaned up with an explicit call to ASYNC_free_pool().

An asynchronous job is started by calling the ASYNC_start_job() function.
Initially B<*job> should be NULL. B<ret> should point to a location where the
return value of the asynchronous function should be stored on completion of the
job. B<func> represents the function that should be started asynchronously. The
data pointed to by B<args> and of size B<size> will be copied and then passed as
an argument to B<func> when the job starts. ASYNC_start_job will return one of
the following values:

=over 4

=item B<ASYNC_ERR>

An error occurred trying to start the job. Check the OpenSSL error queue (e.g.
see L<ERR_print_errors(3)>) for more details.

=item B<ASYNC_NO_JOBS>

There are no jobs currently available in the pool. This call can be retried
again at a later time.

=item B<ASYNC_PAUSE>

The job was successfully started but was "paused" before it completed (see
ASYNC_pause_job() below). A handle to the job is placed in B<*job>. Other work
can be performed (if desired) and the job restarted at a later time. To restart
a job call ASYNC_start_job() again passing the job handle in B<*job>. The
B<func>, B<args> and B<size> parameters will be ignored when restarting a job.
When restarting a job ASYNC_start_job() B<must> be called from the same thread
that the job was originally started from.

=item B<ASYNC_FINISH>

The job completed. B<*job> will be NULL and the return value from B<func> will
be placed in B<*ret>.

=back

At any one time there can be a maximum of one job actively running per thread
(you can have many that are paused). ASYNC_get_current_job() can be used to get
a pointer to the currently executing ASYNC_JOB. If no job is currently executing
then this will return NULL.

If executing within the context of a job (i.e. having been called directly or
indirectly by the function "func" passed as an argument to ASYNC_start_job())
then ASYNC_pause_job() will immediately return control to the calling
application with ASYNC_PAUSE returned from the ASYNC_start_job() call. A
subsequent call to ASYNC_start_job passing in the relevant ASYNC_JOB in the
B<*job> parameter will resume execution from the ASYNC_pause_job() call. If
ASYNC_pause_job() is called whilst not within the context of a job then no
action is taken and ASYNC_pause_job() returns immediately.

Every ASYNC_JOB has a "wait" file descriptor associated with it. Calling
ASYNC_get_wait_fd() and passing in a pointer to an ASYNC_JOB in the B<job>
parameter will return the wait file descriptor associated with that job. This
file descriptor can be used to signal that the job should be resumed.
Applications can wait for the file descriptor to be ready for "read" using a
system function call such as select or poll (being ready for "read" indicates
that the job should be resumed). Applications can signal that a job is ready to
resume using ASYNC_wake() or clear an existing signal using ASYNC_clear_wake().

An example of typical usage might be an async capable engine. User code would
initiate cryptographic operations. The engine would initiate those operations
asynchronously and then call ASYNC_pause_job() to return control to the user
code. The user code can then perform other tasks or wait for the job to be ready
by calling "select" or other similar function on the wait file descriptor. The
engine can signal to the user code that the job should be resumed using
ASYNC_wake(). Once resumed the engine would clear the wake signal by calling
ASYNC_clear_wake().


=head1 RETURN VALUES

ASYNC_init_pool returns 1 on success or 0 otherwise.

ASYNC_start_job returns one of ASYNC_ERR, ASYNC_NO_JOBS, ASYNC_PAUSE or
ASYNC_FINISH as described above.

ASYNC_pause_job returns 0 if an error occured or 1 on success. If called when
not within the context of an ASYNC_JOB then this is counted as success so 1 is
returned.

ASYNC_get_wait_fd returns the "wait" file descriptor associated with the
ASYNC_JOB provided as an argument.

ASYNC_get_current_job returns a pointer to the currently executing ASYNC_JOB or
NULL if not within the context of a job.

=head1 EXAMPLE

The following example demonstrates how to use most of the core async APIs:

 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <openssl/async.h>

 int jobfunc(void *arg)
 {
     ASYNC_JOB *currjob;
     unsigned char *msg;

     currjob = ASYNC_get_current_job();
     if (currjob != NULL) {
         printf("Executing within a job\n");
     } else {
         printf("Not executing within a job - should not happen\n");
         return 0;
     }

     msg = (unsigned char *)arg;
     printf("Passed in message is: %s\n", msg);

     /*
      * Normally some external event would cause this to happen at some
      * later point - but we do it here for demo purposes, i.e.
      * immediately signalling that the job is ready to be woken up after
      * we return to main via ASYNC_pause_job().
      */
     ASYNC_wake(currjob);

     /* Return control back to main */
     ASYNC_pause_job();

     /* Clear the wake signal */
     ASYNC_clear_wake(currjob);

     printf ("Resumed the job after a pause\n");

     return 1;
 }

 int main(void)
 {
     ASYNC_JOB *job = NULL;
     int ret, waitfd;
     fd_set waitfdset;
     unsigned char msg[13] = "Hello world!";

     /*
      * We're only expecting 1 job to be used here so we're only creating
      * a pool of 1
      */
     if (!ASYNC_init_pool(1, 1)) {
         printf("Error creating pool\n");
         goto end;
     }

     printf("Starting...\n");

     for (;;) {
         switch(ASYNC_start_job(&job, &ret, jobfunc, msg, sizeof(msg))) {
         case ASYNC_ERR:
         case ASYNC_NO_JOBS:
                 printf("An error occurred\n");
                 goto end;
         case ASYNC_PAUSE:
                 printf("Job was paused\n");
                 break;
         case ASYNC_FINISH:
                 printf("Job finished with return value %d\n", ret);
                 goto end;
         }

         /* Wait for the job to be woken */
         printf("Waiting for the job to be woken up\n");
         waitfd = ASYNC_get_wait_fd(job);
         FD_ZERO(&waitfdset);
         FD_SET(waitfd, &waitfdset);
         select(waitfd + 1, &waitfdset, NULL, NULL, NULL);
     }

 end:
     printf("Finishing\n");
     ASYNC_free_pool();

     return 0;
 }

The expected output from executing the above example program is:

 Starting...
 Executing within a job
 Passed in message is: Hello world!
 Job was paused
 Waiting for the job to be woken up
 Resumed the job after a pause
 Job finished with return value 1
 Finishing

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crypto(3)>, L<ERR_print_errors(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ASYNC_init_pool, ASYNC_free_pool, ASYNC_start_job, ASYNC_pause_job,
ASYNC_get_wait_fd, ASYNC_get_current_job, ASYNC_wake, ASYNC_clear_wake were
first added to OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=cut
