=pod

=head1 NAME

BP_GROUP_copy, BP_GROUP_dup, BP_GROUP_set_param, BP_GROUP_get_param, BP_GROUP_get_order, BP_GROUP_get_group_G1, BP_GROUP_set_generator_G1, BP_GROUP_get_generator_G1, BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G1, BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G1, BP_GROUP_get_generator_G2, BP_GROUP_set_generator_G2, BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G2, BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G2 - Functions for manipulating B<BP_GROUP> objects.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/bp.h>
 #include <openssl/bn.h>

 int BP_GROUP_copy(BP_GROUP *dest, const BP_GROUP *src);
 BP_GROUP *BP_GROUP_dup(const BP_GROUP *a);

 int BP_GROUP_set_param(BP_GROUP *group, BIGNUM *param);
 int BP_GROUP_get_param(const BP_GROUP *group, BIGNUM *param);
 const EC_GROUP *BP_GROUP_get_group_G1(BP_GROUP *group);
 int BP_GROUP_set_generator_G1(const BP_GROUP *group, G1_ELEM *g, BIGNUM *n);
 int BP_GROUP_get_generator_G1(const BP_GROUP *group, G1_ELEM *g);
 int BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G1(BP_GROUP *group, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G1(const BP_GROUP *group);
 int BP_GROUP_get_generator_G2(const BP_GROUP *group, G2_ELEM *g);
 int BP_GROUP_set_generator_G2(const BP_GROUP *group, G2_ELEM *g);
 int BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G2(BP_GROUP *group, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G2(const BP_GROUP *group);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BP_GROUP_copy copies the bilinear groups B<src> into B<dst>.

BP_GROUP_dup creates a new BP_GROUP object and copies the content from B<src> to the newly created
BP_GROUP object.

BP_GROUP_set_param sets the parameterizing integer B<param> associated to the pairing-friendly curve.
This integer is necessary for defining the pairing computation parameter.

The function BP_GROUP_get_group_G1 returns the EC_GROUP structure storing the elliptic curve.

BP_GROUP_set_generator_G1 sets parameters that must be agreed by all participants using the groups. These
parameters include the B<generator>, and the B<order> and assume the cofactor to be 1. The B<generator> is a
point on the curve chosen for cryptographic operations. Integers used for point multiplications will be between 0 and
n-1 where n is the B<order>. BP_GROUP_get_generator_G1 copies the generator for group G1 to the given argument.

BP_GROUP_set_generator_G2 sets the generator for the subgroup in the sextic twist, having the same order as
the G1 generator. The B<generator> is a point in the quadratic twist with order B<order> and integers for scalar
multiplications must satisfy the same restrictions as in G1. BP_GROUP_get_generator_G2 copies the generator for
group G2 to the given argument.

The function BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G1 precomputes multiples of the G1 generator and BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G1
check if this precomputation has been done. Respective analogues for group G2 are BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G2 and
BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G2.

The function BP_GROUP_get_order and BP_GROUP_get_param populate the provided B<order> and B<param> parameters
with the respective order and parameter for the B<group>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The following functions return 1 on success or 0 on error: BP_GROUP_copy, BP_GROUP_set_param, BP_GROUP_get_param, BP_GROUP_get_order,
BP_GROUP_set_generator_G1, BP_GROUP_get_generator_G1, BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G1, BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G1,
BP_GROUP_get_generator_G2, BP_GROUP_set_generator_G2, BP_GROUP_precompute_mult_G2, BP_GROUP_have_precompute_mult_G2.

BP_GROUP_dup returns a pointer to the duplicated curve, or NULL on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crypto(3)>, L<bp(3)>, L<BP_GROUP_new(3)>, L<EC_GROUP_new(3)>,
L<G1_ELEM_new(3)>, L<G1_ELEM_add(3)>,
L<G2_ELEM_new(3)>, L<G2_ELEM_add(3)>,
L<GT_ELEM_new(3)>, L<GT_ELEM_add(3)>

=cut
