=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_AEAD_CTX_init, EVP_AEAD_CTX_cleanup, EVP_AEAD_CTX_seal, EVP_AEAD_CTX_open - authenticated encryption functions.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 int EVP_AEAD_CTX_init(EVP_AEAD_CTX *ctx, const EVP_AEAD *aead,
                       const unsigned char *key, size_t key_len,
                       size_t tag_len, ENGINE *impl);
 void EVP_AEAD_CTX_cleanup(EVP_AEAD_CTX *ctx);
 ssize_t EVP_AEAD_CTX_seal(const EVP_AEAD_CTX *ctx,
                           unsigned char *out, size_t max_out_len,
                           const unsigned char *nonce, size_t nonce_len,
                           const unsigned char *in, size_t in_len,
                           const unsigned char *ad, size_t ad_len);
 ssize_t EVP_AEAD_CTX_open(const EVP_AEAD_CTX *ctx,
                           unsigned char *out, size_t max_out_len,
                           const unsigned char *nonce, size_t nonce_len,
                           const unsigned char *in, size_t in_len,
                           const unsigned char *ad, size_t ad_len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The EVP_AEAD_CTX_init() function initialises an B<EVP_AEAD_CTX> structure and
performs any precomputation needed to use B<aead> with B<key>. The length of
the key, B<key_len>, is given in bytes.

The B<tag_len> argument contains the length of the tags, in bytes, and allows
for the processing of truncated authenticators. A zero value indicates that the
default tag length should be used and this is defined as
C<EVP_AEAD_DEFAULT_TAG_LENGTH> in order to make the code clear. Using truncated
tags increases an attacker's chance of creating a valid forgery. Be aware that
the attacker's chance may increase more than exponentially as would naively be
expected.

When no longer needed, the initialised B<EVP_AEAD_CTX> structure must be passed
to EVP_AEAD_CTX_cleanup(), which will deallocate any memory used.

With an B<EVP_AEAD_CTX> in hand, one can seal and open messages. These
operations are intended to meet the standard notions of privacy and
authenticity for authenticated encryption. For formal definitions see I<Bellare
and Namprempre>, "Authenticated encryption: relations among notions and
analysis of the generic composition paradigm," Lecture Notes in Computer
Science B<1976> (2000), 531–545,
L<http://www-cse.ucsd.edu/~mihir/papers/oem.html>.

When sealing messages, a nonce must be given. The length of the nonce is fixed
by the AEAD in use and is returned by EVP_AEAD_nonce_length(). I<The nonce must
be unique for all messages with the same key>. This is critically important -
nonce reuse may completely undermine the security of the AEAD. Nonces may be
predictable and public, so long as they are unique. Uniqueness may be achieved
with a simple counter or, if long enough, may be generated randomly. The nonce
must be passed into the "open" operation by the receiver so must either be
implicit (e.g. a counter), or must be transmitted along with the sealed message.

The "seal" and "open" operations are atomic - an entire message must be
encrypted or decrypted in a single call. Large messages may have to be split up
in order to accomodate this. When doing so, be mindful of the need not to
repeat nonces and the possibility that an attacker could duplicate, reorder or
drop message chunks. For example, using a single key for a given (large)
message and sealing chunks with nonces counting from zero would be secure as
long as the number of chunks was securely transmitted. (Otherwise an attacker
could truncate the message by dropping chunks from the end.)

The number of chunks could be transmitted by prefixing it to the plaintext, for
example. This also assumes that no other message would ever use the same key
otherwise the rule that nonces must be unique for a given key would be
violated.

The "seal" and "open" operations also permit additional data to be
authenticated via the B<ad> parameter. This data is not included in the
ciphertext and must be identical for both the "seal" and "open" call. This
permits implicit context to be authenticated but may be C<NULL> if not needed.

The "seal" and "open" operations may work inplace if the B<out> and B<in>
arguments are equal. They may also be used to shift the data left inside the
same buffer if B<out> is less than B<in>. However, B<out> may not point inside
the input data otherwise the input may be overwritten before it has been read.
This case will cause an error.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The "seal" and "open" operations return an C<ssize_t> with value -1 on error,
otherwise they return the number of output bytes written. An error will be
returned if the input length is large enough that the output size exceeds the
range of a C<ssize_t>.

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were first added to OpenSSL 1.0.2.

=cut
