=pod

=head1 NAME

EVP_PKEY_verify_init, EVP_PKEY_verify - signature verification using a public key algorithm

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 int EVP_PKEY_verify_init(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx);
 int EVP_PKEY_verify(EVP_PKEY_CTX *ctx,
			const unsigned char *sig, size_t siglen,
			const unsigned char *tbs, size_t tbslen);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The EVP_PKEY_verify_init() function initializes a public key algorithm
context using key B<pkey> for a signature verification operation.

The EVP_PKEY_verify() function performs a public key verification operation
using B<ctx>. The signature is specified using the B<sig> and
B<siglen> parameters. The verified data (i.e. the data believed originally
signed) is specified using the B<tbs> and B<tbslen> parameters.

=head1 NOTES

After the call to EVP_PKEY_verify_init() algorithm specific control
operations can be performed to set any appropriate parameters for the
operation.

The function EVP_PKEY_verify() can be called more than once on the same
context if several operations are performed using the same parameters.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

EVP_PKEY_verify_init() and EVP_PKEY_verify() return 1 if the verification
was successful and 0 if it failed. Unlike other functions the return value
0 only indicates that the signature did not not verify successfully (that is
tbs did not match the original data or the signature was of invalid form)
it is not an indication of a more serious error.

A negative value indicates an error other that signature verification failure.
In particular a return value of -2 indicates the operation is not supported by
the public key algorithm.

=head1 EXAMPLE

Verify signature using PKCS#1 and SHA256 digest:

[to be added]

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)|EVP_PKEY_CTX_new(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_encrypt(3)|EVP_PKEY_encrypt(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_decrypt(3)|EVP_PKEY_decrypt(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_sign(3)|EVP_PKEY_sign(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_verifyrecover(3)|EVP_PKEY_verifyrecover(3)>,
L<EVP_PKEY_derive(3)|EVP_PKEY_derive(3)> 

=head1 HISTORY

These functions were first added to OpenSSL 0.9.9.

=cut
