=pod

=head1 NAME

G1_ELEM_new, G1_ELEM_free, G1_ELEM_clear_free, G1_ELEM_copy, G1_ELEM_dup, G1_ELEM_method_of, G1_ELEM_set_to_infinity, G1_ELEM_set_Jprojective_coordinates, G1_ELEM_get_Jprojective_coordinates, G1_ELEM_set_affine_coordinates, G1_ELEM_get_affine_coordinates, G1_ELEM_set_compressed_coordinates, G1_ELEM_point2oct, G1_ELEM_oct2point - Functions for creating, destroying and manipulating B<G1_ELEM> objects.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/bp.h>
 #include <openssl/bn.h>

 G1_ELEM *G1_ELEM_new(const BP_GROUP *group);
 void G1_ELEM_free(G1_ELEM *a);
 void G1_ELEM_clear_free(G1_ELEM *a);
 int G1_ELEM_copy(G1_ELEM *a, const G1_ELEM *b);
 G1_ELEM *G1_ELEM_dup(const G1_ELEM *a, const BP_GROUP *group);

 int G1_ELEM_set_to_infinity(const BP_GROUP *group, G1_ELEM *point);
 int G1_ELEM_set_affine_coordinates(const BP_GROUP *group, G1_ELEM *point,
	const BIGNUM *x, const BIGNUM *y, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int G1_ELEM_get_affine_coordinates(const BP_GROUP *group,
	const G1_ELEM *point, BIGNUM *x, BIGNUM *y, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int G1_ELEM_set_Jprojective_coordinates(const BP_GROUP *group,
	G1_ELEM *point, const BIGNUM *x, const BIGNUM *y, const BIGNUM *z, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int G1_ELEM_get_Jprojective_coordinates(const BP_GROUP *group,
	const G1_ELEM *point, BIGNUM *x, BIGNUM *y, BIGNUM *z, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int G1_ELEM_set_compressed_coordinates(const BP_GROUP *group, G1_ELEM *point,
	const BIGNUM *x, int y_bit, BN_CTX *ctx);
 size_t G1_ELEM_point2oct(const BP_GROUP *group, const G1_ELEM *point,
	point_conversion_form_t form, unsigned char *buf, size_t len, BN_CTX *ctx);
 int G1_ELEM_oct2point(const BP_GROUP *group, const G1_ELEM *point,
	const unsigned char *buf, size_t len, BN_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A G1_ELEM represents a point on G1, the curve defined over the base field. A new point is constructed by calling the
function G1_ELEM_new and providing the B<group> object that the point relates to.

G1_ELEM_free frees the memory associated with the G1_ELEM.
if B<point> is NULL nothing is done.

G1_ELEM_clear_free destroys any sensitive data held within the G1_ELEM and then frees its memory.
if B<point> is NULL nothing is done.

G1_ELEM_copy copies the point B<src> into B<dst>. Both B<src> and B<dst>.

G1_ELEM_dup creates a new G1_ELEM object and copies the content from B<src> to the newly created
G1_ELEM object.

A valid point on a curve is the special point at infinity. A point is set to be at infinity by calling G1_ELEM_set_to_infinity.

The affine coordinates for a point describe a point in terms of its x and y position. The function
G1_ELEM_set_affine_coordinates sets the B<x> and B<y> coordinates for the point
B<p> defined over the group G1 given in B<group>.

As well as the affine coordinates, a point can alternatively be described in terms of its Jacobian
projective coordinates. Jacobian projective coordinates are expressed as three values x, y and z. Working in
this co-ordinate system provides more efficient point multiplication operations.
A mapping exists between Jacobian projective coordinates and affine coordinates. A Jacobian projective co-ordinate (x, y, z)
can be written as an affine co-ordinate as (x/(z^2), y/(z^3)). Conversion to Jacobian projective to affine coordinates is simple. The co-ordinate (x, y) is
mapped to (x, y, 1). To set or get the projective coordinates use G1_ELEM_set_Jprojective_coordinates and
G1_ELEM_get_Jprojective_coordinates respectively.

Points can also be described in terms of their compressed coordinates. For a point (x, y), for any given value for x such that the point is
on the curve there will only ever be two possible values for y. Therefore a point can be set using the G1_ELEM_set_compressed_coordinates
where B<x> is the x co-ordinate and B<y_bit> is a value 0 or 1 to identify which of the two possible values for y should be used.

In addition G1_ELEMs can be converted to octet strings in a buffer along with an associated buffer length.
The functions G1_ELEM_point2oct and G1_ELEM_oct2point convert from and to G1_ELEMs for the octet string format, respectively.

The function G1_ELEM_point2oct must be supplied with a buffer long enough to store the octet string. The return value provides the number of
octets stored. Calling the function with a NULL buffer will not perform the conversion but will still return the required buffer length.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

G1_ELEM_new and G1_ELEM_dup return the newly allocated G1_ELEM or NULL on error.

The following functions return 1 on success or 0 on error: G1_ELEM_copy, G1_ELEM_set_to_infinity, G1_ELEM_set_Jprojective_coordinates,
G1_ELEM_get_Jprojective_coordinates, G1_ELEM_set_affine_coordinates, G1_ELEM_get_affine_coordinates and G1_ELEM_oct2point.

G1_ELEM_point2oct returns the length of the required buffer, or 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crypto(3)>, L<bp(3)>, L<BP_GROUP_new(3)>, L<BP_GROUP_copy(3)>,
L<G1_ELEM_add(3)>,

=cut
