=pod

=head1 NAME

CRYPTO_set_locking_callback, CRYPTO_set_id_callback, CRYPTO_num_locks,
CRYPTO_set_dynlock_create_callback, CRYPTO_set_dynlock_lock_callback,
CRYPTO_set_dynlock_destroy_callback, CRYPTO_get_new_dynlockid,
CRYPTO_destroy_dynlockid, CRYPTO_lock - OpenSSL thread support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crypto.h>

 void CRYPTO_set_locking_callback(void (*locking_function)(int mode,
        int n, const char *file, int line));

 void CRYPTO_set_id_callback(unsigned long (*id_function)(void));

 int CRYPTO_num_locks(void);


 /* struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value needs to be defined by the user */
 struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value;

 void CRYPTO_set_dynlock_create_callback(struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value *
	(*dyn_create_function)(char *file, int line));
 void CRYPTO_set_dynlock_lock_callback(void (*dyn_lock_function)
	(int mode, struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value *l,
	const char *file, int line));
 void CRYPTO_set_dynlock_destroy_callback(void (*dyn_destroy_function)
	(struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value *l, const char *file, int line));

 int CRYPTO_get_new_dynlockid(void);

 void CRYPTO_destroy_dynlockid(int i);

 void CRYPTO_lock(int mode, int n, const char *file, int line);

 #define CRYPTO_w_lock(type)	\
	CRYPTO_lock(CRYPTO_LOCK|CRYPTO_WRITE,type,__FILE__,__LINE__)
 #define CRYPTO_w_unlock(type)	\
	CRYPTO_lock(CRYPTO_UNLOCK|CRYPTO_WRITE,type,__FILE__,__LINE__)
 #define CRYPTO_r_lock(type)	\
	CRYPTO_lock(CRYPTO_LOCK|CRYPTO_READ,type,__FILE__,__LINE__)
 #define CRYPTO_r_unlock(type)	\
	CRYPTO_lock(CRYPTO_UNLOCK|CRYPTO_READ,type,__FILE__,__LINE__)
 #define CRYPTO_add(addr,amount,type)	\
	CRYPTO_add_lock(addr,amount,type,__FILE__,__LINE__)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OpenSSL can safely be used in multi-threaded applications provided
that at least two callback functions are set.

locking_function(int mode, int n, const char *file, int line) is
needed to perform locking on shared data structures. Multi-threaded
applications will crash at random if it is not set.

locking_function() must be able to handle up to CRYPTO_num_locks()
different mutex locks. It sets the B<n>-th lock if B<mode> &
B<CRYPTO_LOCK>, and releases it otherwise.

B<file> and B<line> are the file number of the function setting the
lock. They can be useful for debugging.

id_function(void) is a function that returns a thread ID. It is not
needed on Windows nor on platforms where getpid() returns a different
ID for each thread (most notably Linux).

Additionally, OpenSSL supports dynamic locks, and sometimes, some parts
of OpenSSL need it for better performance.  To enable this, the following
is required:

=over 4

=item *
Three additional callback function, dyn_create_function, dyn_lock_function
and dyn_destroy_function.

=item *
A structure defined with the data that each lock needs to handle.

=back

struct CRYPTO_dynlock_value has to be defined to contain whatever structure
is needed to handle locks.

dyn_create_function(const char *file, int line) is needed to create a
lock.  Multi-threaded applications might crash at random if it is not set.

dyn_lock_function(int mode, CRYPTO_dynlock *l, const char *file, int line)
is needed to perform locking off dynamic lock numbered n. Multi-threaded
applications might crash at random if it is not set.

dyn_destroy_function(CRYPTO_dynlock *l, const char *file, int line) is
needed to destroy the lock l. Multi-threaded applications might crash at
random if it is not set.

CRYPTO_get_new_dynlockid() is used to create locks.  It will call
dyn_create_function for the actual creation.

CRYPTO_destroy_dynlockid() is used to destroy locks.  It will call
dyn_destroy_function for the actual destruction.

CRYPTO_lock() is used to lock and unlock the locks.  mode is a bitfield
describing what should be done with the lock.  n is the number of the
lock as returned from CRYPTO_get_new_dynlockid().  mode can be combined
from the following values.  These values are pairwise exclusive, with
undefined behaviour if misused (for example, CRYPTO_READ and CRYPTO_WRITE
should not be used together):

	CRYPTO_LOCK	0x01
	CRYPTO_UNLOCK	0x02
	CRYPTO_READ	0x04
	CRYPTO_WRITE	0x08

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CRYPTO_num_locks() returns the required number of locks.

CRYPTO_get_new_dynlockid() returns the index to the newly created lock.

The other functions return no values.

=head1 NOTE

You can find out if OpenSSL was configured with thread support:

 #define OPENSSL_THREAD_DEFINES
 #include <openssl/opensslconf.h>
 #if defined(THREADS)
   // thread support enabled
 #else
   // no thread support
 #endif

Also, dynamic locks are currently not used internally by OpenSSL, but
may do so in the future.

=head1 EXAMPLES

B<crypto/threads/mttest.c> shows examples of the callback functions on
Solaris, Irix and Win32.

=head1 HISTORY

CRYPTO_set_locking_callback() and CRYPTO_set_id_callback() are
available in all versions of SSLeay and OpenSSL.
CRYPTO_num_locks() was added in OpenSSL 0.9.4.
All functions dealing with dynamic locks were added in OpenSSL 0.9.5b-dev.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crypto(3)|crypto(3)>

=cut
